List of names

Mestre Nicolas Costé, in the

Rue de la Heaumerie, at the

sign of St Claude / Mirrors.

Mestre Jehan Cousin, who resides in

the Faubourg Saint-Germain, knows of the

master.

Mestre Jehan Garnier, in the Rue des

Escrivains by St Jacques de la Boucherie,

currier. Try pastel woad flowers.

List

The harvester that leaves some ears is not

blamed.

Sacra Eleusinae deae propalare

nefas.

Trumpets, see the book of funerals.

List of books and authors

Vuolfangus Lazius

Petrus Appianus, mathematicus

Ingolstadiensis, Comment. urb.

rom.

Hieronimo Ruscelli

Hermolaus Barbarus

Angelius Bargaeus, De aucupio et

venatione

Nicolaus Damascenus

Caresariensis, De rebus

Persarum

Isidorus

Osorius

Eupolemus, historicus gentilis

qui de rebus Davidis &amp; Salomonis

scripsit

&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;

&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;

&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;

&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;

&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;

monsieur

- Cathalogue des

villes

Calendrier des bergiers

Grammaire italiene

Arithmetique of Savonne

Instruction pour le faict des finances

Questions ænigmatiques

Des præceptes d’agriculture

+ Le secret des finances à

Lyon

Synesius

Olaus Magnus

+ Mestre Bernard Palissi, inventor of rustic

figulines to the

king and the queen mother

Alexander Aphrodisaeus

Polydorus Vergilius

Appianus

Athenaeus

Pausanias

Statius Thebaidos

Servius, in Aeneidem

Macrobius

Aulus Gellius

Alexander ab Alexandria

Festus

Nonius

Magius, Miscellanea

Pollux, Onomasticon

Higinus

Berosus

Suetonius

Valerius Maximus

Cornelius Tacitus

Xenophon

Seneca

Dionisius Halicarnassensis

Sabellicus

cum permultis

aliis Julius Capitolinus

Budaeus

Spartianus

Blondus

Volaterranus

Herodotus

Paulus Manutius

Strabo

Iulius Firmicus

Quintus Curtius

Dion

Cornelius Nepos

Flavius Vopiscus

        

Les Annales de

Normandie

List of books

Aquatilium animalium historiae, Hypolito

Salviano Typhernate authore, Romae 1554

For loosening the belly

Prunes of Saint Antonin, &amp; if you like

you want put among them leaves of mallow &amp;

gilliflower, adding in sugar &amp;, if one wants, a

little cinnamon for the stomach.

Or else marshmallow root in a chicken

broth. The fresh kind is more mollifying.

Beating syrup of sweet jujubes with water &amp;

taking it in the morning loosens the belly.

Books to recover

The chronicles of Sigebert

Ruffinus

IreniusIn

Exegesi

Paule Emile

Paule Jove

Polydorus

Bergomensis

Philippe de Commines

Against pains

Turpentine oil, oil of Jacob, and salt extracted

from cabbage ash.

List of books

Practica, cioè nova inventione di contegiare, stampata in

Brescia per Vincenzo Sabio.

Emeralds of Brissac

I have taken minium, 26 ℥,

crystal  and ground on marble 12

℥, verdet 3

|ʒ|. Incorporate all together, put in a

crucible covered with another, well luted, that has a hole in the

top. Fusion 7 hours without blowing. The mass

was of a beautiful green.

I have taken minium 12 ℥,

crystal 6 ℥, verdet 2

grains. Soft fusion vi hours, refired

24 hours. The mass was green, yellow &amp;

red.

Sapphire

Pebbles or crystal 8 ℥,

minium 16 ℥, blacksmith’s

salt 4 ℥, sparkling

coryal 4

grains. Fusion 6 hours.

Counterfeit coral

    

        &#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;

        &#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;

        +

    

One needs to first make the branches of wood or take a

bizarre thorn branch, then melt a lb of the most

beautiful clear pitch resin and put in one ounce of

subtly ground vermilion with walnut oil, and if

you add in a little Venice laque platte, the

color will be more vivid, and stir everything in the resin melted

over a charcoal fire and not of flame, for fear that it catches fire. 

Next dip in your branches while turning, &amp; if any filaments

should remain on it, turn the branch over the heat of the

charcoal.

Colophony is nothing other than recooked resin. To do

it well, take a leaded pot &amp; melt the resin,

&amp; boil it over the brazier a good hour,

&amp; until it appears not to be thick, but clear &amp; liquid like

water, &amp; easily runs &amp; flows from the tip of a

stick with which you grind it, &amp; test it. Then pour it

through a coarse canvas or a very light tammy

cloth, such that when pouring it falls into the

strongest vinegar that you can find, for the vinegar gives

it strength &amp; prevents it from being so fragile. Reiterate this two

or three times &amp; it will be beautiful &amp; well purified. For

counterfeiting your coral, you can mix a quarter part of

mastic into your purified resin to render it more firm

and more beautiful, &amp; if you were to take a single tear of

mastic, it would be all the better, but it would be too long.

Sulfur &amp; vermilion makes the same effect.

The coral made of gules red enamel endures the

file and polishing.

It is made like cement that is stronger mixed with pestled

than of glass rather than with brick. Thus, here one

mixes well pestled gules red enamel, which

is red in body, with the vermilion. Thus with all colors of

enamels.

Varnish for panels

Take a lb of Venice turpentine &amp; heat

it in a pot until it simmers, and put in half a lb of

the turpentine oil of the whitest you can find, and stir it

together well on a charcoal fire and take it off immediately. And

elle it is done. But if it seems too thick to you,

add in a little more oil. Similarly if it is too clear, you can

thicken it by putting in a little turpentine. Thus you will give it

whatever body you want. It could be made well without fire, but, when

heated, it is more desiccative. It is appropriate for panel paintings

and other painted things without corrupting the colors or yellowing. And

it dries both in the shade and in the sun, and

overnight, and during the winter as well as

in the summer. It is commonly sold 15 sous a

lb.

A little more turpentine than turpentine oil is needed in

order to give body to the varnish, which needs to be applied with

the finger in order to spread it thinner and less thick,

for when it is thick, it turns yellow and sticks. One does not

varnish to make paintings shine, for it just takes the light out

of them.

But it is used to heighten colors which have soaked in and to keep them

from dust. Mastic varnish does not resist rain,

whereas that of oil and rosin does.

Thick varnish for planks

There is a varnish that takes a long time to dry &amp;

drips more than two months after it has been applied to the

planks. But this one does not drip like that of times

past, which was made of linseed oil, garlic boiled in it

to extinguish it &amp; rid it of grease, 

&amp; with wheat. And this one yellowed &amp;

rendered greenish the blue color of paintings. This one is made like the

other one except that one puts coarse common turpentine

instead of fine turpentine. And you can put into two

lb of toucommon turpentine one lb

of fine turpentine oil &amp; do everything as with the other one. This one

will cost you no more than five or six sous per

lb &amp; is sold for 40 sous per

lb.

This vessel is for making large quantities of

turpentine oil, that is to say a bucket an

hour, and no matter which turpentine it may be,

whether fine or crude. One needs to give, as you know, a little

fire at the beginning and always keep cold water in the cooler

on the top. The lb is sold at xii sous, &amp;

at the bottom of the vessel remains the colophony, or

pix graeca. In this vessel, eau-de-vie is also made well,

and there is no need to distill it again. You

do not need a oven for this copper vessel, but

only charcoal around it if it has a flat bottom, but if it is

round, you will place it on a trivet.

 It is better to heat the varnish a little bit, rather than to

put it out in the sun, because this makes the panel

warp.

 Some say it is not good to distil in this copper

vessel because it makes things green. However, when tinned, it is

good.

For varnishing

Turpentine varnish does not need any glue because it

is fatty &amp; viscous &amp; it is not absorbed in the wood like that

of spike lavender &amp; sandarac. Also, that of spike

lavender does not require any glue on iron &amp;

similar things that do not absorb. But on wood &amp; on colors

which have do not have gum or 

distemper glue, it is necessary to lay one coat of the said

hide glue &amp; to let it dry &amp; to

varnish.

Varnish of spike lavender oil

One needs to heat lavender spike oil &amp; as it begins to

simmer, put in powdered sandarac gum so that it soon melts. And

over a charcoal fire stir continuously until the sandarac

is well melted, which you will know by taking a little of the said

varnish on a plate, and if it is fatty when you handle

it with a finger, it is ready. And for one lb

of lavender spike oil, you will put five ounces of

pulverized sandarac, although some only put in four

ounces, but this is neither so good nor so fatty. This one is

promptly dry. Frame makers, to avoid the trouble of polishing

their ebony, varnish it with this, as do guitar makers.

This is not as appropriate for panels as that of fine turpentine,

though it is good for the moldings of panels. One did not use to

varnish the landscape of a panel when linseed varnish was in use,

because it yellowed the landscape. But with that of

turpentine, one varnishes everywhere. You can put in

pulverized mastic extracted in tears or otherwise, &amp; it will be

more dessicative, in place of sandarac.

If you want to varnish on plaster or a wall, first put on

your very hot hide glue, because if were cold it

would not penetrate the wall, &amp; when you would put your

varnish on, it would come off.

Varnish of spike lavender oil is not as appropriate for colors as

that of turpentine, for spike lavender oil makes them

die eats away at the colors since it is too

penetrating.

For removing varnish from an old panel that is yellowish &amp;

varnishing it anew

Take white soap &amp; sieved ashese, &amp;

soak both in water. And with a sponge, take the said

ashes &amp; soap &amp; rub the panel with them. And as you

see that the old varnish is removed, throw a

bucket of water against the panel to clean it.

Next put it for a quarter of an hour in the

sun to make it dry and to revive the colors. Next, once the panel

is dry, you can spread your turpentine varnish on it.

Make sure the colors do not come off.

Black varnish for sword guard, bands for trunks,

&amp;c

Take linseed oil or more cheaply, walnut

oil, and rid it of grease with garlic &amp;

onions +hog’s

fennel, some also add bread crusts, which you will

boil in it for a good quarter of an hour. Next, put

in one lb of the oil thus boiled the size of a walnut of black

pitch &amp; a double handful of grains of wheat, without

removing the garlic &amp; onions, and let

it boil together for a good quarter of an hour. And

when the pitch is well melted &amp; when the oil has body,

you can remove it from the fire. Then, to varnish, place your

iron over a low charcoal fire &amp; apply your

varnish with a feather or a brush.

And when you see that it no longer smokes, it is done and your

varnish is dry.

For excellent black varnish, add two or three paternoster

beads of jet among the rest.

Some consider walnut oil better.

If there is a lot of varnish, it needs to boil for at least

half a day, for it is better the more it boils. It

is dangerous if it catches fire, if it goes over the top, and is

hard to extinguish. Make this therefore in a courtyard or an

open space.

 

In five or six lb of oil, one must put one lb

of galipot, which costs 4 sous, &amp; some

peeled garlic cloves. This varnish in and of

itself is not black, but it blackens over the fire.

See below, around the 3rd part of this book,

after sands, in the chapter on furbishers.

Black varnish without fire, without disassembling the

harnesses or removing the bands from

trunks

Take varnish of spike lavender oil &amp; mix in

soot black or lampblack, &amp; without fire it will mix in

by itself. Varnish with a brush &amp; it will soon be

dry. Turpentine varnish will be quite good, but it does not dry

as soon.

Varnish of iron etchers

Take linseed oil or walnut oil

&amp;, in place of black pitch, you will put in a little

pitch resin, &amp; it needs to be cooked in the fashion of black

varnish on fire. And for applying it, heat your iron &amp;

give it only one layer of varnish, &amp; when it no longer

smokes, it is dry. Next engrave with a steel point

whatever you want. Next take salt &amp;

verdigris &amp; mix as much of one as of the other in quite

strong vinegar &amp; leave it for xx4 hours

before using it, &amp; all will be tempered. Next spread some of this

liquor or sauce on the engraved object with a sponge

or linen &amp; leave it thus for xx4

hours &amp; it will be etched. But if you should

want to etch promptly, varnish all your work &amp; boil it in the

said liquor, &amp; it will promptly etch.

Steel mirrors

They are called of steel because in times

past they were commonly made of steel polished with

emery putty. But more easily, various kinds are made

with cuivre franc, which is rosette &amp;

tin, because it is cast in a mold &amp; made

round, concave, convex &amp; however one likes, to represent various

forms.

    

+

So take half rosette copper &amp; half

soft tin, that is to say fine, which has not yet been used.

Put them in a crucible, &amp; first melt the copper

well. And once it is well melted, put in the tin and mix

together. Then cast in the mold, of white stone with no

eyelets, &amp; anoint the mold with oil, &amp; let

it be moderately warm. Then, having

molded your mirror, you can polish it in this way.

Set one of these in plaster in order that it holds firmly,

&amp; then put the other one over it with thin sand in between,

&amp; rub one against the other, whether it be concave or flat, &amp; thus you

will polish two at once. And if you want to polish them on both sides,

you only need to switch them, that is to say put the one that was

polishing into the plaster &amp; the one that was in the

plaster to polish. After having polished them with the

arene you can soften them with Venice tripoli, 

which should not be sandy, &amp; next with

putty. You polish with

arene using water, but polishing with

tripoli &amp; putty is done

dry. Once polished, you can set it.

Concave mirrors

The concave mirror composed in the aforesaid form produces an

endless number of pretty conceits which seem magic. If someone wants to see

oneself from behind, it is necessary to place the concave

mirror on the ground on its foot, &amp; let it be at a slant;

next, look at it from one pace away. But if you

look at it close up, it will represent you the right way up but

with your face quite large &amp; the hairs of your

beard as thick as

string &amp; will represent a nipple as large as a plate, and

women can see the secret places that they do not

want to show to surgeons. It casts the representation out of

itself, and if you touch le lieu the eye of

the representation with your finger, another finger

will come against yours.

You will make a light at night for someone quite far

away, if you place the concave mirror behind a candle

placed on the window. You will be able to read and write quite

far from the candle if you place it behind the candle

&amp; place &amp; turn the concavity toward you. If you put

the mirror at the end of a table &amp; a

candle on it, it will represent two lights on the

table for you. To see what is happening on a street,

shutter the window, whereby the more of it you can shut the

better it will be. Make a hole at the lower one, as wide as your little

finger, perfectly round, from one side to the other. Then

place a sheet of paper on the window

&amp; let the middle of the sheet be over the hole.

Pierce the sheet in the same place as the hole &amp; the same

size. After, place the concave face of the mirror toward the

hole, &amp; it will represent to you all those who pass by in the

street on the sheet of paper. Similarly with

the pierced door of a closed room. You can make wavy ones

&amp; triangular ones, in the fashion that Ptolemy describes, &amp;

Archimedes. The concave one also sets fire to straw from

quite far away, and lights a candle with the sun. Also, 

it heats through the reverberation of fire.

For bronzing in yellow and white

Take looking-glass tin and melt it. On half a lb of

this, put half an ounce of quicksilver, and remove it

all at once from the fire &amp; grind it, and it will be like

ash. Grind Wash it quite well in clean water.

Next, grind it on marble &amp; temper it with water of

ret hide glue. Next, apply to

your wooden candlesticks &amp; any other work you like,

&amp; burnish with the tooth. You can grind pin filings

&amp; apply them with the said glue.

For laying down and seating burnished gold and giving red

or green or blue

Ceruse &amp; lead white is not appropriate for polished

white nor for burnishing because it is fatty, but it is quite good for

or mat which is made with oil, mixing it with yellow

ocher &amp; mine po &amp; tempering

all of it with oil. And this or mat thus applied keeps

in the rain like gilded lead work &amp; similar things.

Therefore for burnished gold take good chalk, quite white,

well ground, &amp; tempered with distemper glue, &amp; make

four layers of it, one after the other, on the wood. And once the

last is dry, rub it with prele, which is a

plant otherwise called horsetail, to render it well

polished. Next take fine boli armeni &amp;

sanguine, as much of one as of the other, also lamb

tallow the size of a bean or a

pea depending on the quantity of bole, and a

little willow charcoal, or as much as the

tallow, &amp; half a walnut shell full of

half-burned saffron. Some put in a little candy

sugar. Grind all together with water, &amp; apply it without

gum or glue, &amp; let it dry, &amp; rub the place that

you want to gild with a piece of white cloth to better

smooth it, &amp; when the rubbed place is a little shiny, it is a sign that

the gold will be carried well. Having rubbed, wash with a clean

paintbrush soaked in clear water the place that

you want to gild &amp; immediately apply the gold, which you will

burnish once dry. And if you want to lay in rouge clair

&amp; glaze with it de, grind Venice

 laque platte on marble with

walnut or linseed oil. Once ground, mix

turpentine or spike lavender varnish &amp; apply on the

gold with the paintbrush.

Brazilwood &amp; laque ronde die. For

green, temper verdigris with walnut or

linseed oil &amp; grind it, next mix in turpentine varnish

and not spike lavender varnish, which is not suitable for

verdigris. If you want to glaze with azure, it needs to be

set on burnished silver and take azur d’esmail,

&amp;, without grinding, temper it with turpentine varnish &amp;

apply it.

For ga cachcages

You can embellish them with enamel cannules of

various colors by covering the latten or iron wire with the said

cannules. These you will break neatly to the length that you

want if you slightly notch with a cutting file the place to

be broken, and they will not break at any other place. You can bend

them with a wood model over a

chafing-dish or else by the heat of the lamp. It can

also be drawn as long as you want in a small furnace made like

a reverberatory furnace but which is pierced on both sides. And

when the large cannule is red, they seize the hot end using

small pincers with a long beak, such that one prong of the beak

of the small pincers enters inside the end of the 

cannule, &amp; thus it is lengthened without becoming stopped, &amp;

the other end of the cannule is held with the hand,

because it is not hot. When the cannule is stretched enough,

the one who works seated, having his furnace

the size of a carnation pot before him,

breaks it off &amp; continues. This is for making 

cannules for capes, which are cut, as said, with a

file. Glass button makers also avail themselves of

the said furnace.

    

Under the door is a grate that supports the lit charcoal, &amp;

the ash is emptied by turning the furnace upside

down.

For stampings to

embellish and encrust or cover the edges of mirrors, the

tops of chests, or the friezes of bed valances

Etch with aquafortis on iron or copper

whatever you have pounced and drawn there, next clean it up with a

burin or chisel. Then pour soft tin

which has not been used onto polished marble &amp; with a 

wooden board, flatten it quite thin. Or else cast

it in tablet form like lead, or put it through a

roller press. Next lay your tin plate over the etched thing,

&amp; over the tin plate put a piece of felt and

strike on top with a hammer. Then gild it in this way.

For gilding with gold color and tinsel

Once you have gilded colored, make your

stamping either in tin, as is said, or

in iron dest or copper. You ought not

to put a layer of glue there as on wood, but take only

fatty oil, which is made in seven or eight days in

the sun with walnut oil and lead white &amp;

with, stirring it often, or cooking it on the fire if one is in

haste. Then, with the oil thus made fatty, grind a little lead

white, massicot &amp; mine de plomb

, at discretion, as much of one as of the other.

Minium gives color to the gold. Next, with this, you make

a layer of it evenly on your stamping, taking care not to fill the hollows.

And once it is almost dry, lay the gold leaf on it with

cotton. Such gold will hold up in the rain on

houses &amp; elsewhere. And if you have gilded with tinsel, color

it with smoke of partridge or of yellow or red

cloth, &amp; it will be beautiful like fine gold. You can

cover trunks, mirrors, valences &amp; bedposts with colored

velvet or satin, then apply the gilded stampings

on top with strong glue.

For coloring stamped trunks

The stampings of sheets of copper or latten is made on engraved &amp; carved

service tree wood, if one wants to spend less. And next, the stamped object is

colored with the aforesaid colors of lake, verdet,

azur d’esmail, &amp; tempered in turpentine varnish.

But in the place you want to azure, lay down fer

blanc, which is more appropriate for an azure

background.

Doublets

Good dragon’s blood soaked in eau-de-vie

carries its mastic or glue in itself, as do

sap-green &amp; saffron.

Fish glue or isinglass and

mouth glue

It is made from codfish skin, boiled rather than

being salted. Joiners glue their masterpieces

with it and guitar maker use it for delicate works.

It wants to be strongly beaten, then soaked gently in barely boiling

water.

Mouth glue is made of parchment scrapings and

one uses it without fire, for glueing paper or similar things, 

wetting it with the mouth.

One beats it and soaks it in in eau-de-vie of

vinegar white wine for one

night, then one melts it on a slow fire. Others soak

it in eau-de-vie.

For giving the color of all kinds of metals to wood

&amp; other things

Take touchstone &amp; pumice stone as much of one as

of the other &amp; grind them together &amp; mix with a hide glue 

stronger than that used for painting, &amp; paint it on

whatever you like. Once dry, rub this layer with any metal

whatsoever, then burnish it.

Against windy colic

Take a dozen dried common walnuts &amp;

throw them one after another into a good brazier where they may

catch fire, &amp; take them out with small pincers, and let them burn

&amp; flame well in the air, and extinguish them in a glass

of good wine. Next, let the wine cool and strain it,

&amp; pour half of it, for six extinguished

walnuts are for one dose. Excellent cure

against the suffocation of the matrix.

For relieving the pain of

G.

Take half a lb of finely pulverized golden &amp; yellow

marcasite, half an ounce of storax, 4 lb

of urine, incorporate everything well together, little by little,

in a mortar, then boil all together quite thoroughly. But the

pot needs to be well covered in order that the fumes do not

exhale. Next distil the it is urine, imbibed &amp;

separated by inclination, in an alembic, well-luted &amp; covered

with a copper helmet &amp; soak a linen

cloth with the said water &amp; apply it lukewarm on the

pain.

Against gonorrhea

Aquae fabrorum antiquae lb i.,

boli Armeniae in tel tenuissimum pollinem redactae ℥.i., mellis

communis ʒ.iii. coquantur ad mellis despumationem. Tum refrigerata colentur cum forti expressione

&amp; de colatura utatur per injectionem.

Lettering of gold on paper

Write with fig tree milk then let it dry a

little, next lay the gold leaf, &amp; once quite dry, rub with a

linen cloth and only the lettering will remain.

For bursting grenades and giving force to

fireworks

Put among the powder six times as much of

quicksilver and a sixth part of

quicksilver.

Tempering of balls for piercing armor of

proof

Heat the lead ball as much as you can without melting it, and

when it will be very hot, temper it in the

strongest vinegar that you can. And do this four or five times.

Next, chop some lard very small &amp; some linen also very

finely, mix all together &amp; use it as wadding, and by a little force

&amp; very precisely, force it into the arquebus or pistol. And

before firing, cha if possible, make it so that

the ball is hot.

For making a breach in a wall by

night

Having made a hole in the wall as you know, put a

petard inside, charged with powder,

which should be as if lying down, &amp; the other upright, then plug the

hole &amp; give fire.

Polishing of the balas ruby

It is not polished with tripoli but like the

others, but with marcasite powder &amp; oil.

Or and argent moulu

You need to calcine your fine gold with

☿ and then cleanse your amalgam well &amp; make the

said mercury fly off. Next grind it on marble

with gum water. As for silver one needs to take it as

is &amp; eat away at it with aquafortis, then take it out with a copper blade

&amp; rinse it thoroughly and next grind it with gum water.

Polishing of stones

There are three wheels for doing this, one of tin, one of

lead &amp; one of fine copper. On the

cu copper wheel only the diamond,

the ruby, sapphire &amp; oriental jacinth are

commonly cut co or polished. The

tin wheel is for more tender stones like emerald,

amethyst &amp; others.

Mixture of Pewterers

Because among the fine tin they quite often mix a half

of lead, which renders the tin deaf, to correct

this, they mix in latten filings to render it

sonorous.

Perfect amalgam

Take the most delicate grais you can &amp; hollow it in

the middle. Put in an eighth part of ☿,

in &amp; into this, while adding water, rub &amp; wear down your

☾ or ☼ until the

substance becomes like paste &amp; even harder. Next, if you want, eat

it away with good aquafortis, if it is

☾ or ♀. Then remelt it,

having taken it out as you know. The ☾ will have a

tint and, once melted, will leave some grains of

☼, &amp; the ♀ will be

very beautiful &amp; will have almost no crust.

Plowman

Because millet is by nature very dry,

harvesters beat it most often at night in the cool

&amp; by moonlight. Which could not be done with another

grain that is wetter, for one le must let the

sunbeams pass through, and one scarcely beats it until the sun is

approaching midday. Quickly after the millet is

cut, one needs to plow the earth because the root eats it &amp; makes it lean as

much as if the millet was still standing. The ground

where the millet has been sown diminishes much

in its fertility &amp; c, which one knows

well at the next sowing that one makes after that. But above

all the grain called

    pomole in Gascony or

baillard in France, makes the earth shake seven years later,

according to the common saying. Beans

improve &amp; correct the soil, provided that one lets the roots &amp; stems

rot in it.

Painter

Some, after having laid down their color, soften it with the flat of a

feather. But the large paintbrush is best.

Merchant

They commonly have four books. The tyrant, which is a

formulary for apprentices, by which they can know how much

every item of merchandise costs &amp; cofor how much

it should be sold. The second is the waste book, where they put down in

rough what they sell daily. The third is the sales book, where they

reduce to clean copy and put the retail account of what is contained in

the waste book. The fourth is the account book, which mentions the sale,

the balanced account, the bill &amp; the term of payment, &amp; to this one

l credence is given in court.

Painters

They completely melt orpiment in a glass

bottle on very hot ashes, but it would be more appropriate to

sublimate orpiment in a long-necked matrass as for

making garnets. The orpiment thus turns red like red

enamel &amp; one needs to first grind it damp because once completely

melted it is very lively &amp; difficult to grind. Next, one can

br thin it, once dry, with oil &amp; it will

make a deep yellow of heightened color. But to prevent orpiment

from dying with the other colors &amp; to render it compatible with

these &amp; to make it dry promptly, it is a secret held to be very rare to

calcine common salt &amp; to grind it in. 

Vert de terre is not used with oil.

Merchant

The rule that merchants are accustomed to keep in their

books, that is to say, the waste book, the sales book, and the ledger,

otherwise called the account book.

Waste book

And first, François du Cros owes from 2nd September

1581, for 1 cane of cambric at 8

livres per canne, I make this -- 8

lb t.

Moved to the sales book at c. 25/

François du Cros owes from 2nd September 1581,

for 1 canne of cambric at 8 livres

per canne, as appears in the waste book at c. 25

Moved to the account book at c. 55 /

François du Cros owes from 2nd September 1581,

for the merchandise taken by himself, as specified in detail in the

sales book, No. 7 at c. 55, the sum of 8 livres, of

which the said du Cros has made a bill on the said

day, to be paid on St. Andrew’s day next,

I make this -- 8 lb t.

Counterfeit jasper

        

Thin glass for this effect is very beautiful.

Take horn from which one makes lanterns, quite thin, &amp;

underneath make the figure of your jasper, cornalines,

&amp; other stones, which will be a work more appropriate than on

glass, which is too shiny. And the horn presents a luster

&amp; fatty polish like jasper.

You know, as with scrapings of the said horn, the

roses can be imitated. The horn colors for

this jasper want to have a base with clear turpentine or

spike lavender varnish. And colors matte in body

are not so appropriate here, although they are very beautiful. One

needs to oil the unpainted reverse with spike

lavender oil.

You can encrust beds with it &amp; on the joints you can throw the

filings of talc or of pins on the fresh cement of the said

joints. One needs to join them with gum ammoniac soaked in

vinegar. To better counterfeit mottled jasper, apply

wool with thick hairs dyed in diverse colors &amp; intermingled.

After you have layered all the colors, scrape oblique lines on them,

then layer gold &amp; silver leaf. If you layer on the

horn colors of turpentine, give it a base of silver

or of tin leaf. You can also file horn &amp; mix

it with strong glue, &amp; layer it onto the joints of the

piece of horn, then even it with a joiner's plane.

Stil de grain yellow

It is made in Lyon from the juice of weld &amp;

chalk mixed together or better yet with ceruse, which is

appropriate for distemper and oil.

Roses

These are counterfeited either with the scrapings of

 horn used for lanterns, or with scrapings of

parchment, very clear &amp; delicate &amp; dyed &amp; employed as you

know.

Purple color

Painters make it beautiful, making the first ground of

common azur, or better yet azur d’esmail, &amp;

next they glaze it with lake, which will be more appropriate for

this if you mix in alum, which gives it a violet tint depending

on the quantity that you mix in.

Powder for hourglasses

It is made very fine &amp; without being subject to rust &amp; by

its weight able to flow; taking i lb of lead, melt it

and skim and purify it from its filth, then pour into it four

℥ of finely pulverized common salt, and

take good care that there be neither stones nor earth. And

immediately after you have poured it, mix continuously very well with an

iron until the lead and salt are well

incorporated, and lift it immediately from the fire, stirring

continuously. And if it seems too coarse, grind it on

marble and pass it through a fine sieve. Then

wash it so many times that the water sembl

becomes clear, throwing away that little powder which will swim

on it, renewing the water so many times that it stays entirely

uniform.

For painting in oil on taffeta without the

oil running

One needs to make a layer of batture, which is made

of well-cooked honey &amp; turpentine of strong glue 

soaked for 24 hours in water then gently

brought to boil so that it is hardly strong. Next stir in a little

honey to soften it, &amp; make it boil all together. And on top

of this layer, which will soon be dry, you will be able to paint in

oil, which will soften the layer even more, and which can also

serve you to make a seat for gold. Alum water also

keeps oil from running.

Seat for gold leaf on parchment or

paper

Make very clear starch glue &amp; which does not show itself to have body. 

And make thereof six or five layers, &amp; on the last, once it is half dried,

apply your gold.

For cleaning gold leaf applied to iron

Rub your weapons or other gilt objects with dry horse

dung.

For whitening ceruse

Hard-boil eggs, divide them in half &amp; take the yolk out,

&amp; between the two halves of the white put a piece of

ceruse, &amp; tie them together with thread. Then boil

in clear water, &amp; it will become entirely black, &amp; thus

the ceruse will be left well purified. Some reheat it over fire &amp; it

becomes very white.

Painting esmail d’azur in oil

This is a secret that is hardly known to common painters.

Some take the most delicate they can &amp; grind it with ceruse,

which binds it, and next prick with an awl in several places

the area they want to paint with azur d’esmail, in order that the

oil enters &amp; leaks in, &amp; ne does not

cause the azure, which in itself is heavy, to run. Others lay the

panel flat &amp; put down the azure on it, which is also done

in distemper. The main thing is to grind it well on

marble, and before that, to have washed it thoroughly.

Some grind it with thoroughly with an egg yolk &amp;

then wash it in five or six waters and lay it

on not with a paintbrush, which would be too soft, but

with a brush thoroughly softened &amp; crimped,

&amp; layering it thickly as if one were putting it down with a

trowel; settling down it evens out and flattens. I have

experienced that grinding azur d’esmail with egg

yolk &amp; next washing it in several waters is

good. However, it loses a little of its vividness in the grinding of it.

I have also washed it in several waters &amp;, when it

had settled a little, I removed the water, still

q blue, with a sponge and squeezed it into another

vessel thus where it settled, &amp; from the

residue I had the ash, flower, and subtlest part of the

azure without grinding it, which is

the best, for in the grinding of it, it loses some of its tint. Those

who make it in Germany compound it like enamel, in large

pieces which they pestle, &amp; pass through several sieves

&amp; wash.

To make azures beautiful, they wash or soak them in a

rock water, as they call it; it is a

water distilled from mines where azure or vert

d’azur is found, which distills naturally through the

veins of the mountain or is distilled through an

alembic par from mineral stones of

azure or copper.

Azure ashes are only good for landscapes because

they die in oil. Only true azure holds on. Azur

d’esmail cannot be worked if it is too coarse. Try it, therefore, on

the fingernail or the oil palette. If

it  happens to be sandy, do not grind it except with

the egg yolk or, better yet, wash it in clear

water &amp; with a sponge remove the colored

water after it starts to go to the bottom, and in this manner

you will extract the very delicate flower, which will be easy to work

with.

Color of Damascus steel on knives

Rub the steel with common aquafortis, mixing the said

water with earth  &amp; next rub the whole with

ashes or sand &amp; the gold

&amp; the silver will touch as on a

touchstone.

For getting rid of the redness of eyes or bruising

Make two small thin slices of raw mutton flesh,

&amp; with a head band, apply to the eyes at

night.

For coating with or mat

There is nothing better than the black varnish of

furbishers to make a seat

because it dries immediately &amp; makes the gold appear very

beautiful.

For diamond points for engraving

These are for tracing what you want to draw on stones &amp;

engraving, &amp; when these points are fatty &amp; cannot bite,

one needs to rub them diamond against diamond. One rubs

them with diamond pumice stone powder. One

needs also to unpolish on a lead wheel either the

stone or the glass on which you want to engrave, for the

polish, which is like varnish on glass, prevents the

diamond or sapphire from biting well. But This

is why it does not bite easily on the nail, which is

polished &amp; fatty. But when the polish is taken off, it bites

easily.

Polishing wheel of copper

Before polishing your stone on it, it is necessary to degrease

ter it well, rubbing it with a piece of

leather en tour on the flesh side while

spinning the wheel, if you have not worked on it in a long

time.

For molding sulfur

Sulfur is made beautiful mixed with soot black or with

pulverized sanguine, which renders it harder and stronger. Having

let it melt well until it becomes liquid, like oil, mix it with

verdigris, and you m will very neatly cast in

plaster a lizard or something else.

One ought not to cast unless it is well cooled &amp; unless it

has lost all its pustules &amp; bubbles, and has settled down

well &amp; become smooth like  water. The

soot black gives it a fine sheen &amp; makes it neater. The most

beautiful yellow sulfur must be used, for the greyish &amp;

lively one is not good. Do not cast in wind &amp;

in cold, for it would become porous.

Chimolée

The terre chimolée, otherwise known as

fuller’s earth, with which they dress the

cloth, is excellent for molding hollow or in relief; &amp; if you

want to reheat it, it must first be warm, &amp; reheat it on a gentle

fire at a distance &amp; little by little, otherwise it would crack.

Put the figure to reheat in a pot in an oven or in a

covered oven. It is very soft, neat &amp; beautiful. You

can make a hollow form of animals from chimolée &amp; cast

lead in it.

The work needs to be dried for 4 or 5 days before you reheat

it. When you mold &amp; make a hollow form from chimolée, do

not press suddenly, but gently, for it would crack.

Paper

The whitest &amp; finest is the best. And when the hollow form is quite

clean, as of sulfur or cooked chimolée, it is made

very neatly. You can give it one or two layers of white with a

border of gold to imitate alabaster. And after you have

applied the white, you can burnish it with the tooth.

But in order for it to be burnished, one needs to temper the lead

white with glair of egg &amp; peelings from the fig

tree. Or better, varnish your work with white varnish.

Also, when you are molding with paper, as it starts to dry,

burnish from the back with the tooth.

Plaster

That from the mountains is greyer, and the the

one from the region of Albi is whiter. It must be cooked with a

closed fire, such as a reverberatory furnace or barbers'

ovens. And the most freshly cooked is the best to put to use.

One needs to finely grind it on marble. After having prepared your

hollow form from sulfur or something else, &amp; having oiled it

&amp; enclosed it in a circle, temper not too

thickly your plaster with water, &amp; separate it well

with your finger, and if it makes pustules, throw on top

more powder of the said plaster &amp;  grind it

with the finger until +

+ it makes no more pustules. Then cast &amp; sprinkle

once again with plaster powder &amp; let it take well, then

scrape the powder.

Molding stucco promptly

Grind &amp; pulverize finely brick or Armenian

bole or sanguine &amp; incorporate it with melted wax,

&amp; thus melted, cast like the others on a relief medal,

&amp; thus you will have a hollow form where you will be able to cast with

plaster, pestled paper, or terre chimolée.

Finely sieved brick is better, because the bole is too

fatty.

Cleaning yellow pearls

Gently boil them in the goldsmiths’ bouteure then, with tripoli &amp; a piece of

leather, sprinkled on the flesh side with the powder of the

said tripoli, rub &amp; polish the pearl.

For whitening enilanroc

Some think that the ceruse-colored crust which is on top

is natural, others say that it is a secret of ancient lapidaries

that is lost, others say that it is refired enamel. And by means

of the said crust, several ciphers, letters, circles

st &amp; other bizarre things can be formed. As for

the method, I have practiced it thus. Once I wished to give it a layer of

arsenic ground on marble. However, I experimented

without this, and I put the aforesaid thing, enilanroc, in a

small iron casket on the fire of my

goldsmith’s forge with three or four small

half-burnt charcoals, and blew only with my mouth. And

nonetheless the thing came to redden &amp; ignition &amp; turned

completely white, not only on its surface but also inside, &amp; then I

let it cool on its own near the fire, for otherwise, exposing

it suddenly to cold air, it would have burst. Once all white, I passed

it through my lead tinwheel, 

where I found it as hard as before, &amp; uncovering the white

a little, I found it a fair flesh color. Finally, I polished it &amp;

saw that it took a very beautiful polish &amp; could paragon a

very beautiful agate for cutting some beautiful face on it &amp;

bringing it on the a table of

agate of various color. But because this total whiteness did not

respond to make this white crust on the surface that I was seeking,

leaving the rest of the thing of its natural color, I made a opening in

a brick of the exact size of the thing &amp; put it inside. Then

I reddened two glassworkers’

solders, &amp; as they were red, I

presented them one after the other onto the surface of the thing until I

had the white crust that I required, on which I made such drawing as I

wanted, uncovering up to the red base with a diamond

point, and I polished it with small hog bristle brushes

and tripoli. I do not know if it would be better to

reheat it under hot ashes, &amp; if it would be good to encase it

in alabaster, which is very cold, as I encased it in the

brick.

Flesh color from arsenic

Sublimated arsenic, that is to say, the white one that is

sold as stone, when ground on marble, mixed with

vermilion or lake or minium, makes a beautiful

flesh color that is always shiny. Yellow arsenic has a very

beautiful color, the white one is good in oil and agrees well

with the lake.

For dyeing

Mix sal ammoniac &amp; vitriol &amp; boil them

together. Then mix in lake or verdet &amp; azure or

similar, &amp; dye. This will not come off unless the animal

sheds. Non bona.

Polishing of stones

Engraved tai stones are not polished on a

copper wheel, but with brushes and

tripoli. Yet stones cut in facets and flat are

polished on the aforesaid wheel.

Fine sieves of raw silk

One makes tammy of raw silk on a loom, to make

fine &amp; delicate sieves. And for that effect, you must not

choose raw silk whitened by sulfur smoke, which

renders the silk chas charged with a sticky

vapor that would hold the flour &amp; in the end would prevent it

from

passing through so well. But choose for that effect yellow raw &amp;

natural silk because it is stronger &amp; casts out flour

like horsehair.

For knowing the good cendrée of azure for oil

The one that accumulates in small clods and is lumpy is

the best because it is the most subtle. Also the one that is very

pale in color, because oil darkens it. Certain

sophisticators mix them, but you will know this if you pour

some onto a piece of paper &amp; press it &amp; spread it with

the finger since, if it is mixed, it will be found

variegated &amp; as if striped with a pale one &amp; a darker one, but if it is

unmixed it will be even &amp; of one color.

Whitening of pearls

When they have been applied in embroidery on some garment, they are

greasy &amp; are cleaned in soap water.

Toadstone

The kind which comes from the head of the toad &amp; has

the figure of the toad painted naturally, as you have seen, is

the most excellent. It is held that if one puts the powder of it on a

brazier in the chamber of some persons at night, they

will be neither able to move, nor speak, nor thwart thieves.

Snakes

It is said that if one calls a snake in Greek, saying

ΟΦΗ ΟΦΗ, it will flee. Likewise, if one nom

calls a swine in Greek, y ïon, it

will come.

Candles

Candlemakers never make good candle when the

Autan wind blows because the candle always tends to melt, however

good the tallow they use for it.

For walls of earth and rustic construction

Swallows have taught us this craft, making their nests out

of mud mixed with wisps &amp; stalks of hay or

straw to make it bond. Therefore, in places where stone &amp;

brick are lacking, one can use earth to make partitions

&amp; walls. And for this, light earth, which does not

form clumps when plowed, but which is as if intermixed with

arene, holds first rank, because it can be beaten &amp;

tamped down better. It is true that one needs to moisten it &amp;

la cut it into the shape of sods with a ditch-spade, and

thus place &amp; arrange it. This one lasts longer and there is not as much

construction work, and ne dryness does not make it

crack &amp; split. But, because such kinds of earth are not found

everywhere, those who are on good &amp; fertile land, after

marking out with a measuring line the width &amp; length of

their foundations, drive into the ground in along the edges, 

on this side &amp; that, long chpoles

&amp; or chevron beams to support boards

between which they throw the earth, making each

layer one foot thick or thereabouts, intermixing it

as if S.S.S with branches of heather or

similar things, then with beaters of three

different forms they tamp it &amp; beat it. One is called the

mallet, which has a triangular form like A, and with this, one

first tamps the earth. Next one uses one which is made of blocks of

wood pointed at the tip &amp; helved to a large stick, &amp; this one

is for pressing the earth well at the extremities and edges of

the wall, which adhere to the boards, &amp; is

called. The other one is called the

bat, which is for flattening &amp; beating the earth for

the last time, as shown in C. Then one makes another layer of

earth &amp; heather and beats it as

was said, &amp; continues thus until the wall is complete,

which one covers with heather &amp; then with

earth. Some m intermix rows of bricks

in the said wall. They also make the

wall tapering, giving a width to the

foundations according to how high one wants to raise the

wall. Which, when old, whitens, &amp; thereby shows that it

has saltpeter in it. That is why, when they fall down,

gunpowder makers profit from them.

A

Damasked cloth

You can damask a cloth with two different colors and imitate

embroidery without adding anything to it, in this way. Once it is

dyed yellow, pounce onto it such a pattern as will please you.

Then you will baste some string or a thicker cord onto the

pouncing and thrust it into a dye of guesde woad

or pastel woad &amp; it will become green, except that

which is beneathus the string, which will remain yellow because the

green dye will not have penetrated there. And you can do thus

with other colors, and instead of cord or string, add some

    pieces of paltry cloth, cut into moresque shapes, on top of the

first colors. In that manner, you will have cheap embroidery.

Foundry casting

One casts candlesticks and small works in a frame with

sand. And after having imprinted the work, one sprinkles it with

flour in order to make the e metal

copper or latten run better. When the sand has been used

for a month, it is necessary to take some new, because the one

that was used, being reheated in fire

+, dries out &amp; loses its bond. However,

it is used to mix among the new, for it makes the work not so porous.

One casts large works such as artillery, bells &amp; similar things in

earth, &amp; copper cast in earth makes less of a

crust, and is whiter than the one cast in sand. The

earth is sandy clay mixed with horse dung

&amp; cloth waste. That which is has been used for

founding, which is black, cooked &amp; as if burnt, is

cast mixed with artificial sand, &amp; is

very good. / To soften &amp; make the copper run, throw in,

once it is melted, a little lead, which does not form an alloy

but is found on the surface of the cast.

+

by the heat of molten metal

Casting gold and silver

It is necessary that the sand be from something very dry &amp; arid

&amp; reheated well in the frame, because, if it were humid,

like founders' sand, the gold and silver

would spatter, &amp; cause damage. It is also necessary for the

earth to drink the metal, for cast gold or

silver is becomes very spongy. That is why it must be

beaten again, otherwise it is frangible, as one sees in spoon

handles.

Tablets

Some are made from boxwood inlaid with ebony,

sandalwood, ivory, or gold and silver like

damascening. Then one writes on it with silverpoint, and

next erases it with a cuttlefish bone by

rubbing them.

Letter, more legible

One cuts the largest pieces of beryl or crystal round

on one side &amp; flat on the other, then one sets it with a little

handle and one sets down the flat side on the letter.

Stamping

If you have some bronze medal &amp; you want to make it very

light, make of it a hollow form of lead, then spread upon it some thin

plate of gold, or plates of lead or annealed

annealed silver, &amp; set your bronze medal on top

&amp; strike with a wooden mallet.

Softening horn

Those who acou mount Agnus Dei &amp; make circles from

horn for certain little boxes soften ladicte

the said circles by soaking them in hot water and next fashion them

on a round or oval-shaped triblet.

Ears

When some defluxion occurs there, one needs

to be very careful not to put anything inside, and according to the

proverb, one ought only to touch the

ear &amp; the eye with the elbow. However, it

is good to put on an affected ear musked cotton, that is

to say, kept in musk, for it comforts quite well.

Toothache

Some put a clove of garlic in the ear which

is on the side where the tooth is hurting, &amp; within two or

three hours they feel well because of

it. Others put in the nostril which is on the side of the

ailing tooth green skin scraped from e the

small branch of visaube, namely

the kind which is under the grey one which resembles a small branch.

Founding of soft iron

Most people consider that iron, once melted,

cannot be melted again because they only heat it in small

forges, in which it only becomes red-hot. Alchemists

undertake to melt it mixed with realgar or lead or orpiment. 

But without all that, some have found a manner of

the melting not only brittle iron, such as the kind used

for iron pots, but also soft iron such

as d that of pigs &amp; ingots, which is the most

difficult kind. And to this effect they make a furnace in this

manner which has a width of one pan &amp; a half &amp;

one pan &amp; a half of a depth of two

pans. And the blast-pipe, which is the barrel

through marked A through which the bellows’ pipes enter, has

to be placed in the middle of the height of the furnace such

that there is one pan of the mouth of the

furnace above the blast-pipe &amp; one

pan underneath.

Each pan of the mouth of the square furnace

contains one &amp; a half quintal, &amp; the

pan of the round furnace holds two

quintals.

        

    

The miners, to make the iron run, put at the mouth of

the melt, two or three handfuls of

wallwort when they want to make the melt run, and

this renders the iron wonderfully ductile and flowing.

      

It is also necessary that the blast-pipe enters through to the

middle of the mouth of the furnace, which is a principal part of

the secret because the wind will hit the edge &amp; the wall which makes

up the belly of the furnace &amp; by such means, it spreads

equally everywhere &amp; above, like the flame in a reverberatory

furnace, &amp; by such means heats much more; for if the wind were

to hit directly from above, the substance which is melted or ready to be

melted, it would cool it down &amp; prevent it from running &amp;

melting. It is also necessary for the bellows to be driven by the

leaping &amp; running of water as in forges, because in

this manner, the bellows run with measure &amp; compass &amp; with great

speed, which the strength of workers could d not

do. Therefore one raises the wall as you see &amp; the furnace

on the surface of the ground at the edge of which you make a channel as

with other founding, to put the molds of that which you want to

cast &amp; to do this, you unstop the opening that you had made at the

bottom of the furnace to make the melted substance run. You

will be able to melt two quintals of iron each time and

to do this, you will choose the biggest charcoal you

can find &amp; put a load of it at the bottom, on the plane and surface

of the furnace &amp; with the bottom piling up as if

to a point, up to the top of the wall

Some make a mold of the caliber of the piece, &amp; temper it,

then beat a soft iron piece cut to size, &amp; when

this piece is very red, they beat it into the mold &amp; round

it off with a large file, considering these balls to be

stronger than the melted ones which, being brittle, are more subject to

breaking.

which is usually of a height of d three

pans &amp; will reheat well the. But first,

it is necessary that you have reheated your furnace

with with a little of the big charcoal, such that

the bottom is red hot and then you will put there the aforesaid load of

charcoals in the middle of which you will put your iron,

not all at once but ten or fifteen lb each time. And when this

will be swallowed &amp; at the bottom of the furnace,

always put in as much again. And add three or four shovels of

new charcoal which should be of the biggest kind and remoistened,

in order that it may have more heat &amp; not be consumed too soon.

And when you see that your furnace is full of substance, around

two quintals, or less if you do not of it have that much, you will

leave the charcoal to be consumed by itself. And when the

charcoal is as it were reduced down to the level of the

furnace, you will be able to pour into molds &amp;

iron or metal shells, which is even better

because one iron attaches to the other. And it is necessary that

the inside of the mold be well ashed with tempered

ashes, in order that it does not adhere to it.

Against Go.

Soak quince seeds in clear water &amp; of

this mucilaginous water make an injection.

For removing fine hair from the forehead

Take a needle’s worth of fine silk &amp;

pass it tightly across the places with the hair &amp; it will attach

to the silk like fine cotton wisps.

Silk

Crimson is more abundant than all

other silks because its color does not charge as do blue &amp;

green, which are also more profitable for the worker. Black is less

abundant because it charges much.

Keeping oranges

One needs to choose quite whole ones which are not rotten &amp;

put them &amp; fill a well closed and tin

vessel with them &amp; they will keep six

months.

Candles

They keep well in bran which makes them white &amp;

long-lasting, so say some. I believe, however, that it is enough to keep

them in a cool &amp; dry place, in such manner that they are

not pressed together. It is better if there is a hemp

thread throughout the wick, which gives it more light &amp; makes the wick hold up

straighter. Otherwise, if it is all of cotton, as those of

Montauban make, it is necessary to snuff it out often, for

after it has burnt il a little, the cotton

droops &amp; makes the candle drip.

On the gunner

The cannon fires at point blank from five to six hundred paces.

But not for battering, in which it can only perform well from two

hundred paces, or three hundred paces at

the most, and it should not be any farther. Its ball commonly weighs 40

lb of the King’s caliber. There is

a cannon-perrier, which weighs xxv quintals, which are

small, short cannons. It is for fighting the ditch casemates

&amp; for battering at close range. It bears a large ball of the

King’s caliber like the others, namely of

40 lb. It bears in the breech only the width of two balls

&amp; a quarter of a ball. The front only bears the width of

one ball &amp; a third of a ball. Its charge is similar to those of

bigger ones, namely xx. And for this reason, when one wants to try them

, one ought not to over-charge it, for this damages the

piece. And for the first time &amp; until it has fired five or six

pieces shots, it is better not to give its complete charge,

for the piece is still proving itself. And the test that one can do is

to give it a charge of xx lb of fine arquebus powder

instead of ordinary cannon powder. And four good horses

are sufficient to drag them. They are easy, &amp; close up they have as

much force as the big ones, especially for private houses

&amp; small towns &amp; fortresses of little

importance. They are no more subject to bursting than the others

because they are short. For that which gives great strength to the

powder &amp; puts the piece in danger of bursting is

the length of the piece, because the powder is burned entirely

before exiting, &amp; the its impetuosity is held constrained

for longer in a small long piece than a

gr short one. The cannon-perrier is commonly seven to

eight pans long. It is true that this is a

pan of Montpellier &amp; not a

King’s pan, which is not used in the

founding of cannons for making them good. For the pan of

Montpellier being of shorter, the cannons

more proportioned there are shorter also, &amp; compensate in

thickness ce the length that they would have by the

King’s pan, by which measure they

will be found longer. But also they would be thinner. The e

great canno strength of the cannon-perrier for

making a battery is 4xx paces.

The great cannon, because of the weight of its ball, carries

a range of only a thousand or xii hundred paces without

landing, &amp; bouncing, it commonly bounces iii times.

The cannon-perrier does not have a large effect if not close.

One recognizes the good alloy of a piece by seeing it. For if, with the

greenness which they expel on the surface, they redden, that is to say

that they are composed of a sufficient quantity of

rosette. If not, they are only of metal, which

shows up whitish. If they themselves do not make this demonstration,

scratch &amp; you will see. 

The good alloy for pieces is of three parts of

rosette &amp; one of the fine metal of

la large bells, where there is more

rosette than in the metal of small bells. The

metal commonly costs xv lb &amp; fine

rosette xv or xvi.

The pan of Montpellier is equivalent

to six of the King’s inches, which

contains in it two common ones. 

It is necessary, for a mounting a piece well, that it be as

high at the side of the mouth as at the breech. Otherwise, one does not

mount well.

The large cannon, which is for great

batteries, commonly weighs fifty-five or lx

quintals. At the breech it carries the thickness of

b two balls &amp;one 

lof the three parts of one ball. At the front, it carries

ba the thickness of one ball &amp;

two two of the three parts. It is thirteen or fourteen

pans long. But they are very troublesome to drive. The

head-on battery, to accomplish its task quickly is &amp;

batter with great force, is at d one-hundred fifty

paces &amp; at two hundred. And It is true that one

batters well from three or 4 hundred paces, but it is necessary

to give it more powder. Its common load is p

of xx lb of powder, its ball of 40 lb. One

needs xxv horses to draw it. When one fires it farther than its

usual range, one puts in a half ladle of cannon

powder more. A cannon can fire

4xx or a hundred shots per

day, but one needs to refresh it every time after one

has fired te nine or ten shots, if the battery is steadily

continued. For if there is a break, it is not necessary to refresh it as

often. For two quintals of copper, or two quintals

&amp; a half if it is for large cannons, one puts one

quintal of metal. # The

metal is composed at the beginning of eight lb of

tin for one quintal of rosette, while

for large bells one only puts six lb of fine tin for one

quintal of rosette, to give it a bigger

voice. For the more tin there is, the clearer the

sound is. Its For gun founding, if one provides the

material &amp; charcoal, as one commonly does, for

masters do not have the means, one gives x to xii

lb per quintal. And for the mat when the

master provides everything, one gives him 40 lb,

according to the King’s ordinance, per

quintal for large pieces &amp; such as cannons, and for

small pieces, L lb. For the more material there is,

the more profit the master has of it. One founds another kind

of cannon-perriers of xxx quintals which are longer than the

others, and easily eight pans long, &amp; they are for

battering defenses &amp; casemates, s

placing them via trenches on the edge of the ditch

by night.

◯

On each side of the opening of the breech they give the thickness of

half a ball. And then they also add on each side the third part

of a ball.

Ain One gives it two ladles of

cannon powder for its charge, &amp; one &amp; a half of

arquebus powder, &amp; the same for the others.

#

The composition of cannons of France is of one quintal of

metal for two of rosette.

But those of Toulouse &amp; Poncet  puts 

iii of rosette &amp; one of metal.

The rosette for re-melting is more profitable than

cauldrons, which turn entirely into filth.

Old pieces are composed of almost de dem as much

of one as of the other, namely one part of

rosette &amp; one of metal. One recognizes this

composition with a burin. For its substance is found to be brittle

&amp; the particle taken from the burin is found to be mixed

with yellow &amp; white.

Large culverins are for battery &amp; piercing

are forty quintals &amp; eighteen pans long.

Their ball, of the King’s caliber &amp; for

battery, is 30 lb and thus lighter than that of the cannon. And

thus, it does not carry so much ammunition for fifteen lb

suffices for its charge. The cannon makes a bigger opening due to the

size of its ball, but the culverin hits more fiercely &amp; propels

faster, having greater force due to its length. At the breech it carries

the thickness of two of its balls &amp; esthe 

three third s part of a ball, at the front the

thickness of one ball &amp; two thirds. Culverins serve to

batter defenses from afar when one cannot easily make an approach, and

cannons approach more closely. They also serve to support the battery.

One needs fifteen or sixteen horses for moving it. They are

tout of the same alloy as the cannon, as are all

pieces that exceed smaller than average, for to

these, one adds a little more metal in order that the melt runs

better. And for two quintals of rosette, one

adds six twenties lb of metal for the smaller pieces.

They shoot 8 or 9 hundred paces at point blank, &amp; up to

a thousand paces if the powder is strong, &amp;

half a league at range.

Some invented the loading of cannons with cartouches.

Some po do not put the powder in the cannon

all in one go but in two &amp; ramming each time, saying that each

ramming raises &amp; gives a further thumb’s breadth. But this

is not certain for large pieces which are loaded with a lot of

powder.

The bastarde, which is a culverin

middle-sized piece,

weighs thirty quintals and its ball weighs xx

lb xv lb and carries as its charge x

or xii lb of powder. Its proportion is at the breech the

thickness of two of its balls &amp; thees

threeird parts of a ball. At the front, the

thickness of a ball &amp; two of three parts. or

They serve to batter defences of little importance such as

gabions and garrets topped with a tower &amp;

similar things. It is thirteen or xiiii pans long like

the large cannon. Ten horses can move it. It accompanies well

the large culverin for point blank because it carries small

ammunition.

Some give it the thickness of three balls at the breech &amp; at the

front of two balls.

The bastard culverin weighs 35 quintals &amp; is xxv

pans long. It carries three balls at the breech &amp;

two in front. Its ball is like that of the bastarde piece,

weighing xv lb. These are pleasure pieces which s cannot be moved by

carriage, but are for city defences. Some make these xxvii or

xxviii pans long, like the Cow of La

Rochelle. But to such pieces one gives reinforcement at the breech

as of three balls. At range, they can shoot around one league,

&amp; a half league at point blank. Its charge is like the

bastarde. And if one wants to fire at some cavalry

quite far off, one increases the powder a little. A tail of smoke

follows the ball which de guides your

sight e to where the ball is going. This goes for the

cannon and for the culverin, and not for small pieces.

The average weighs 18 quintals &amp;

measures xii pans long.

Its ball weighs eight or 9 lb &amp; its charge is six

pounds of powder. And for At the breech it

carries a thickness of three balls, &amp; in front, two. It is

more appropriate for the defense of a city than for battery.

However, one takes it sometimes either to break a barricade

or to support the battery after the cannons have fired, in order to

prevent the assailed from re-fortifying after the cannons have played or

fired. Four horses can draw it. It shoots eight or nine hundred 

paces at point blank &amp; almost as much as the

bastarde.

To cannons &amp; large pieces one givesn as much

powder as is the diameter of a ball &amp; a half, at

which point the escutcheon sits. To medium pieces, such as

field pieces, &amp; smaller ones, one gives them powder the

thickness of two balls. To the passe-volant &amp; other smaller

ones, one gives them powder the thickness of three

balls. In general, one charges all pieces up to the

escutcheon. One charges with the ladle all

pieces from the cannon to the piece of four quintals

de char, and one gives them two

ladles of cannon powder or one &amp; a half

of arquebus powder. To smaller ones, one only gives one

ladle, &amp; those of one quintal are

charged with a small charge.

The field piece weighs ten or twelve quintals &amp; is ten

pans long or 12. Its ball weighs vi or vii lb

&amp; its charge is 4 lb of powder. At the breech it has

three balls &amp; two in front, as do all pieces that are smaller than

the average. One gives them more of a breech because one makes them

longer in proportion, and also because in a house or

elsewhere one fires them more frequently than the large pieces.

Their caliber is also small, which makes the breech 3 balls

thick. They are used for following a camp promptly &amp; for the defense

of cities &amp; houses, putting them on the

walls or on a tower. One needs three good

horses for drawing it.

The passe-volant weighs vi quintals, is eight or nine

pans long. Its ball weighs two lb, &amp;, for

its charge, a lb &amp; a half of powder. At the breech

it has three balls &amp; two in the front. Two horses can move

it, for a single horse does not begin to move a piece. It is

used for the defense of houses, or for taking among the

infantry to break a rank of cavalry.

The falconet weighs 4 quintals, is x

pans long. Its ball weighs one lb &amp; a

quarter, its charge is half a lb of powder. At the

breech three balls, at the front, two. To move it, two horses,

although such pieces are hardly moved insofar as they only serve to

defend houses. The ones which are carted around either for

battery or for siege combat, are cannons, culverins, medium-sized

bastardes &amp; field

pieces. The falconet is loaded with a ladle, and one

commonly gives it only one ladle. There are also

other falconets weighing three quintals, and which

are nine pans long. Their ball weighs half a

lb. Their charge is a quarter of powder. It is loaded

either with a ladle, but more commonly with a charge. At the

breech, 3 balls, &amp; 2 in front. To the small pieces which

are under 3 quintals one gives them at least 3 balls

&amp; a twelfth part of a ball at the breech, &amp; sometimes

takes away from the front to make this addition to the breech, according

to the length one gives them.

The strength of the piece is at the level of the trunnion, which is the

point of departure of the lit powder.

The strength of the berche is at the

maslée, &amp; at the back of the

breech.

A double musket weighs 2 quintals, is seven

pans long, carries a ball of a quarter of a

lb or a little less. At the breech 3 balls, two in

front. One loads it with as much powder as ball, up to the top of

the escutcheon, which in these small pieces can amount to 3

or 4 balls of arquebus powder. For if one uses

cannon powder, one can load it to a thickness of c

five balls.

One needs to understand all of this as iron balls. When one

shoots a metal ball, one over-charges by a quarter

ladle because if a cannon ball weighs 40

lb, the metal one weighs lx lb. One also takes

the gun-sight higher when shooting a metal ball. For if one

shoots an iron iron ball point-blank, one takes six lines

higher when shooting metal balls. A metal ball makes

alloyed with copper, in order that it is not frangible, is more

effective hitting at close range than that of iron. But the

iron one hits more fiercely from afar. 

A simple musket weighs one quintal, is six

pans long. carries a ball weighing 

qu One has no consideration for those which are under two

quintals, which readily carry lead balls

un of the weight of the ball, but of the caliber.

However, those which can receive balls of metal or iron do

better because they will penetrate more than six lead ones. Its

charge is up to the escutcheon, namely the thickness of 4

balls. 

Arquebus à croc weighs lx lb, that is to say the large one is

five pans long, its charge is up to the

escutcheon, namely the length of 4 balls, it

carries lead balls, and is for the defence of houses. Of these

arquebus à croc, both the large &amp; the small ones, one makes orgues

which are or appropriate for an assault, both outside &amp;

inside the place. They are founded separately as if to serve for uses

other than orgues. See the 4th leaf following, marked

Mathematical figures without ruler and compass

You know how to draw a circle correctly with the quill &amp; or

else with the nail of your right thumb &amp; the bent

big finger. If you do not have a ruler, fold

paper in two five or six times to use it. And if you want to draw

a column, arch, oval, escutcheon correctly without a compass,

fold your paper such that the fold e gives

you a straight line, at the required distance from which, trace

a point &amp; a or a line &amp; saturate it well with

ink. Then fold again the paper &amp; rub it on the back

    &amp; 

 it will print however much you have made. In that way la

l, A is the line without ink which the paper

fold gives you, B is the line you have traced, C is the one which is

printed.

P For writing as well from the

left as from the right

Write as best you can with well-gummed ink on as many little

cards as you want  to write words. &amp; once

each letter is well saturated with ink, put it down on your

paper &amp; rub with a tooth the back of the

card.

Clysters

One used to give them with leather sleeves or bags,

which for the best result is must be of cat

skin which is more mitten-like than any other. And then one would

start to fold back the sleeve on one side &amp; one would

continue to fold it back &amp; twist it around itself &amp; in that way

the clyster would run gently. But this manner takes longer &amp; is less

convenient than the syringe which has been discovered since,

with which a man alone easily gives a clyster. It is true that

it always causes wind at the end.

For making millas

It is necessary to have millet pilled to remove the

husks and then you will clean it well. Next one needs to

grind it again quite finely and pass it through a hair sieve

quite finely. This done, it is necessary to mix the flour with

melted fresh butter and milk, and that there be

as much of one as the other, in such a manner that it is very light in color,

like the dough to make fritters. And you will put in egg

yolks according to the quantity of flour, so that it amounts

to two egg yolks for each millas.

Then you will put in some saffron, if you like, to give

them a little color.

Next, you need to have molds, and it is

necessary that they be earthenware, in the fashion of the crown of

a catholic hat, but it is necessary that they be open at both ends. And

then, having made a good fire, you will clean the place in the

hearth where you want to put your

millas, and then you will take your molds and

grease them quite heavily in order that the dough does not stick when it is

cooked. Having done that, you will put your said molds on the

well-cleaned place in the hearth and will put a

little flour at the bottom and fill them with the aforementioned

dough. Next you will cover the said molds with

lids which will be made like the molds, but it is

necessary that they be larger and not be open at the top. Then having

done that, you will put a little hay on the said lids

and plenty of embers, and make a good charcoal fire all around.

That done, you will uncover one of them soon thereafter and see when it

is cooked. It should be hard.

Glassworker

Glass from Lorraine is smoother &amp; more even than

plate glass and it is sturdier &amp; more durable. But commonly

it is stained by veins, in straight lines as if tanned, which happens

because the glassmakers, having made it, put it when totally

hot on straw, which stains it in this way. However, this

is removed with varnish &amp; salt &amp; other

drugs that the glassworkers put on. Glass from Lorraine is sold by the bundle &amp; each

bundle is composed of three tablets.

The bundle costs usually x sous.

Plate glass is sold in made in France, it is

whiter &amp; clearer, but alternately it is not so durable as that from

Lorraine. It is also commonly blown &amp; in that case, it is

better to make little diamonds rather than large square pieces in the

shape of a frame, because they cannot be set quite evenly.

Plate glass is sold by paniers. Every

panier contains 24 plates that are

commonly sold at x or twelve lb.

For whitening the face

Pestle puffball in cistern water, &amp; no

other, &amp; wash with this whitened water. This is considered

quite singular. And I believe that making it from wheat

starch &amp; to use it would be even better.

Against winds, colic, &amp;c

Sap squeezed or water  distilled from

orange peel is excellent against the windy colic.

Candied peel, too, is excellent for the winds of the

belly. And to make a trial of it, having poured foaming

wine in a glass, squeeze orange

juice on the wine foam, which proceeds only from vapor &amp;

wind, and you will see that the foam will immediately disappear. Also,

if you squeeze juice against a candle it will burn all

the brighter.

Skirret root

They want to be planted in a very humid place where with such a

rodier well or fountain one can water it often, for by

this means they are tender. Otherwise a hard heart forms inside,

which takes from it all its goodness.

Against burn

Pestle an onion with verjuice &amp; leave it

to soak like this, then apply it.

Or else, apply black soap on the burn. Experimented.

Common saying

Bell tower of Rodez, church of Albi,

bells of Mende. However, one holds the bell of

    Toulouse named Cardaillac as one of the most beautiful in

France, all the more since it weighs two hundred and fifty

quintals.

A form of regimen

Every morning, take two or three eggs laid one or

two days ago. Heat them until &amp; do not cook

them. Take the centers well dusted with sugar. And next

drink one finger of wine. And apart from being

nourishing, it makes a good stomach.

Gunner

As for small cannons which are not loaded with a ladle,

one charges them with powder up to the escutcheon, which

is placed on the piece with due proportion.

To point a cannon, that is to say to take its aim, one needs to take

the sight, that is to say aim, from the sides before the top, that is to

say above the cannon. For by aiming along the top, you will be better

able to find the line tending to your target, but you would not find out

if the cannon tends more to one side than the other. Therefore take your

sight on one side, then on the other &amp; adjust your piece to the

point at which you aim. Then take your sight from the top of the breech,

which will be done quickly. Next, lower your piece a little at your

discretion if you are within true range, because the force of the

powder usually makes it rise. But if you were farther away than

your piece shoots at point blank, you would need to consider that the

weight of the ball would make it lower.

For firing a cannon at night

Some keep their pieces loaded and from the day. Then, in

order that the gunner can fire into the breach where the

assailed are perhaps making repairs, the besiegers raise a false alarm

in order that the besieged throw torches &amp; artificial

fire into the moats or around the breach, at which the

gunner aims. Sometimes, by using the reflection of

mirrors or flasks full of water, the assailants

light up the breach. The method you know, with a quadrant &amp;

plumb line, is very good. Others nail two or three rows

of boards with strong iron pegs on the wooden platform

made for mounting the cannon, and leave empty notches into which the

wheels of the cannon can just fit. And by such means you will always

te place it at a similar q

point, that it will not incline more to the right than to the left. And

in order that it be neither too high nor too low, when you fire during

the day, you place a ruler fixed well in the ground, which

comes just to touch the the bottom of the edge of the cannon after it

has been pointed &amp; adjusted for firing.

If the

platform, the wheels, or the

wedges break or are disturbed, this

invention is of no profit.

Others place two poles fixed well into

the earth such that one is equally as far from the edge

andof the muzzle of the 

cannon as the other. And underneath they place the above-mentioned

ruler. Then when they want to fire at

night, they push their cannon straight toward the above-mentioned

ruler &amp; make it so that the edge of the mouth rests on the

end of the aforesaid ruler. Next, they measure with a

ruler or similar thing cut to measure, from one pole to the

side of the cannon &amp; if it is too close or too far from it, they

adjust it &amp; do thus from the side of the other pole.

For unspiking a cannon

Some say that one should remove the ball if the cannon is loaded

&amp; give fire through the mouth of the cannon. But it is to be

believed that the fire would sooner exit that way than going to seek its

exit through its usual touch-hole which is

spiked &amp; constrained. The most reliable way is that the

gunner, who is often a founder, wedges &amp;

thoroughly rivets the nail that the enemies placed, and with a

trepan makes at the side another touch-hole next to

the one which has been spiked, which will be done in an hour. And if

with time the violence of the powder loosens the nail with

which the piece is spiked, you will make a thread in the second

touch-hole &amp; place a screw in it quite perfectly which will

never come undone. M

Defense of a town

There is nothing that has a greater effect for the defense of a

breach than petards placed at the entryway at the time of the assault.

They carry a lot of ammunition. be One fills them

with cart nails, large steel dice, bits of chain

&amp; similar things. And when one senses that the enemies are close,

one sets fire to all. Grenades, too, well-made and aptly thrown, cause

great damage. And to make them worse, one puts coarsely

pestling pestled glass either in the molds or in the

crucible, when one wants to cast them; this worsens the wounds.

The grenades ought not to be too brittle. But it is good that they be

somewhat alloyed with the substance of the pieces in order that,

holding the blast a little rather than breaking, they have more

violence.

Cannon ball, weighing 40 lb, having 12 lines,

king's foot.

    

    

A little too big, see the one of that

follows.

Orgues

    

    

Then one mounts them on a medium thick board close to 

oneg another &amp; one makes

    notches on the board this way 

 &amp; through these notches one passes the hook of the arquebus which

has a hole through which one passes iron pegs from under

the board. Then, when one wants to aim it, one mounts the middle one

&amp; that on both sides. If you want to make a double row, or triple or

quadruple or more, you need only place a similar row of boards like the

first, one on the other. For the other This kind of orgues

penetrates &amp; is quite stable. For the other ones which

are made of one piece like a solid square have cannons only

three four one pan &amp; a half

long. Also, they only serve for making a salvo at an entry or for

defending a door.

A small arquebus à croc weighs 40 lb, is four

pans long, is loaded up to the

escutcheon, has three balls at the breech &amp; two

in front.

The double cannon is no different from the large ordinary cannon, except

that it carries  its ball  which has

one line of thickness, or of

diameter, more. The line is a twelfth part of the

ball of the cannon. At the breech, it has one line of

thickess more than the cannon, &amp; half at the front. Its charge is

six or seven lb of powder, more than a cannon, namely by

two big ladles. Its ball weighs 56 lb. One

needs thirty horses to draw it. It makes much

more of a fracas at the wall than the cannon. But it is very troublesome

to draw. It is for this reason that one hardly uses it today, and it is

more for moving to some nearby place &amp; battering at close range or

for an entry, than for ordinary business. One calls them

basilics, and they are pieces made for pleasure.

On petards

Such a petard is made which weighs three quintals, carries

a cannonball flat on the side on which it must exit &amp; round on the

inside of the cannon, as if it were a cannonball cut in half. It is two

pans long. It is charged with xxv lb of

powder for at it needs to be full up to the mouth

&amp; it needs to burst. It does not have a different thickness at the

breech than at the mouth &amp; is all of one piece. Its substance needs

to be better than that of pieces, &amp; for 4 quintals of

fine copper there ought to be only one quintal of

metal in order that it holds the blast, &amp;, bursting with more

force, has a greater effect. It is for putting against a door with a

large iron cross in front of the ball, and sonce loaded, it needs

to be covered with a well-sewn thick canvas which should be

anointed c all over with turpentine. It needs

to have four handles, made while it is founded, for it is thus easier to

place. The iron cross is joined to the mouth with the

canvas with which it is covered. To place it, it The

handles must be kept at the edge of its muzzle, as you see. To place it,

one needs three or four iron pegs one

pan long &amp; as thick as a

finger which should have their point like a

wimble gimlet, &amp; the entire leg as

a screw, like an auger, &amp; a ring on the

other end to turn them with a short stick which has play within

the ring. And the pegs are placed in the door but

not straight but for they would not have any strength, but at an

angle as if you wanted to fix them toward the middle of the

petard, and to do this, the hole of the handles needs to be quite large.

In this way, the firing petard pushes the pegs along &amp;

across into the door &amp; makes more of a breach. Once it is placed,

you need to have a buckram sausage 

made in this manner: take eight or nine canes of

buckram strip or more if the ditch is larger, and let the strip

be four or five fingers wide. Have it well sewn in

such a way that it is like a gut through lwhich a

stick as thick as a finger can pass. Fill it

completely with good

This one is for putting below an undermined tower with the muzzle

pointing up. One makes two large iron rings &amp; with a

bar or two, four men carry it. They are also used for putting

in breaches but here one needs only half a charge, namely x lb,

&amp; to fill it with flint stones &amp; cart flint

stones.

One needs to cover it entirely with waxed canvas &amp; rubbed

with turpentine &amp; combustible things. This cover is

made in order to secure the ball, such that it does not fall and in

order that when the fire takes to the cover, the primer powder

does not fail. Precisely at the fuse, you will need to put in a good

quantity of primer powder. Some put a cross of iron on the

ball which exptends beyond the mouth of the petard by two

pans. Others only put the ball.

powder. When the sausage is full, dip it well in

lightly, to wet the canvas &amp; not the powder, in two

parts of vinegar &amp; of one of

eau-de-vie. Next, let the said canvas dry well, and then

one needs to join to the said sausage a long string or

cord which should be two times longer than the

sausage, &amp; one ought not to tighten it to the sausage but only

to bind it to it at both ends &amp; to sew it on the sausage in a few

places in the middle. Next one needs to anoint the entire sausage with

very good turpentine, and at whichever end of it you wish to join

 to the touch-hole of the petard for giving fire, you can sew

a or tightly attach a large strip of canvas one

empan wide which should also be well soaked in

turpentine; &amp; this strip must be split in the middle in order

to wrap &amp; tie it around the petard, and one needs to attach it in

such a way that the touch-hole should be close to u

mthe the tip of the sausage, which should be open,

should be joined to the touch-hole of the petard. Then one needs to put

a lot of tightly-pressed powder onto the touch-hole of the

petard. And next, the one outside the ditch needs to pull the

thread &amp; cord that is joined to the sausage until

it is moderately extended, but not so much that it is detachedsen. And if

there was water in the ditch, one would need to support the

sausage with forks. Then, the one who holds the end of the sausage will

be able to give fire, having gotten himself to safety, &amp; the others

also.

On petards

Petards that one wants to place on doors or iron grates are

sufficient if they weigh 40 or 50 lb. Moreover, as for its

charge, ball, &amp; fashion of proceeding, one needs to do all as is

already said above, concerning the one of 3 quintals. One man

can carry it.

The ball needs to be be round on one side &amp; flat on the other

like a half ball a half of a cut ball. It is also

necessary that the cross is held to the ball and that it, when the ball

is founded if you make it from metal, is bound up with the middle

of the cross.

Grenades

Grenades must be made from the finest metal one can find, for

there is fine metal and crude metal. Fine

metal is that of a large bell, because one

puts in more copper to give it a bigger voice, &amp; for small

bells one puts more tin to give it a bigger clearer

sound. The metal of a large bell is made one with

3 quintals of rosette &amp; twenty or xxv

lb of tin. Tan Each grenade must

weigh four to six lb. And in order to throw them, it is necessary

that they be full of powder mixed with coarsely pestled

glass. And for a quarter lb of powder, one needs

half an ounce of glass which is put with it, in order

that on the face or places where the powder will have its effect,

the wounds will be all the worse for it. The best arquebus

powder is required here. The hole needs to be as large as the

thickness of a swan’s quill, &amp; you need not bother to

make it threaded, but it is enough to make it even. Next, you make a

well-soldered pipe of fer blanc, 

which can enter into the hole &amp; enter into the middle of

the grenade &amp; which comes out of it by the width of one

finger. You will fill it with good powder, pestled

in a mortar &amp; lightly mixed with good eau-de-vie or

strong vinegar which seems. And when This is done to

temper the powder. And to know if it will be slow enough to allow

leisure to throw the grenade without danger, try this powder thus

bathed in another pipe. You can keep d your loaded

grenades in a very dry place, &amp; on the contrary you shall

keep your pipes filled with that bathed and well-compressed

powder in a humid place. And nonetheless, you shall

have some already inserted into the some grenades,

to be always provisioned. And every three days you shall

change them if you recognize that they have become too dry. To throw

your grenade, take it bravely &amp; in one hand

&amp; with the other give fire to your pipe with the a

match, &amp; throw it promptly amidst the

powder troops. The thickness of the

grenade should be twice the back edge of

a knife.

For bringing a cannon over land

If you have To bring a cannon, one needs a hundred

pioneers or more to flatten the tracks by levelling ditches

&amp; others obstacles, such as trees, stone mounds

&amp; similar things to make gabions on the way. Once one is close to

the place one wants to batter, the gunner goes at

night to reconnoiter the most convenient place to mount the

battery 

        

Know the magazines of France for the

artillery.

        

It is good if the platform is slightly inclined toward the front because

the piece is more quickly mounted for battery &amp; holds the blast

better &amp; batters more fiercely.

&amp; if he does not see well, one gives a false alarm in order

that those on the inside throw torches. Very often, one batters where it

is strongest because the assailed, disdaining the battery, do not make repairs there.

Commonly, there are not many garrets &amp; other defenses in

that place. And when one has made a breach at the strongest part &amp; the

cannon removed, it will surprise the assailed. One approaches

fortified towns at night, but to poorly

fortified towns, pioneers bring gabions and

carry once these are placed, one puts some boards or planks

behind the gabions to keep the pioneers safe, while behind,

they fill the gabions with some earth by means of their

shovels. And while one does this, one raises some false alarm

on another side. And before, one has 

fired a volley at the defenses.

The gabions The pioneers carry the

boards to make a level ground or a platform of four

fingers or half a foot thick, and

one sets them into the earth. The platform is five or six

cano feet larger than the wheels of the cannon

on each side m if there is only one cannon. But if

there are more, the platforms touch. The distance which is between the

pieces is the width of two gabions. As long as the battery

lasts, the gunners sleep &amp; eat close to a cannon. In

small spaces, one does not bother to dig trenches to reach the pieces

but one puts plenty of gabions that are high &amp; goes running to them. In large

places one digs trenches. There are always in trenches or behind

barricades some some companions-in-arms on guard duty to defend

the pieces. One keeps the small powder magazine, of three or four

kegs, separately,

a hundred paces away from the battery &amp; one surrounds

them with barricades or trenches. And there one goes to get

powder in bags or frails. And each piece has

its own frail for loading three or four times. Then, when the

cannon is set on the platform, one puts a board that is proof of an

arquebus between two gabions. Then a gunner loads it with a

ladle, &amp; with the rammer which is at

len the other end of the ladle, two men

ram the powder as much as they can, in nine or ten pushes, until

they find the powder to be hard &amp; well-compacted. Next,

another puts hay or straw and the r others

ram a little. Another puts the ball and the hay-bearer puts in

as much of it as before &amp; one rams a little. Some put

wooden bungs but this runs the risk of making the piece

burst. And where one has to fire many cannon shots, one

would need many bungs, which would cost much to carry. Once the

cannon is loaded, xx or xxv pioneers push it forward with

bars, keeping to one side behind the gabions without taking off the

board until the cannon reaches it. Once the cannon is in front, the

gunner mounts it with the wedges which are at the

back, taking the sight on each side and then in the middle. Then another

who is nearby gives fire. Each gunner cannon needs

3 gunners: the loader, the one who aims, the one who gives

fire. Sometimes, against a camp or into a breach, one shoots cartridges,

made as you have elsewhere, or else one uses a basan full of

flint stones, cart nails &amp; similar.

P A ch cannon must not move

unless it has two harnesses, be they of wood or iron. And

to furnish the wheels, powder box, and other furniture of the cannon,

one needs seven quintals and a half of iron.

Pour les pre The best battery is done at a curtain

wall, some say, for that is, as if at an

bieve angle, for by doing this you shake loose

several stones.

Some put small wheels of the piece and a thick board to the end of the

carriage of the piece in order that it may be drawn more quickly and

without making a noise. Others put leather all around the

the wheels &amp; also put leather soles or shoes on

the horses’ hooves in order that one does not hear

them.

Fowlers

 are those which have a

reinforcement inside, in the entire space which contains the powder, and the

ball can only a roll up to the opening of the said

chamber. These do not penetrate so much &amp; are irritating to load but

they do not heat up as quickly.

A steel touch-hole

is

put in the cannons in the manner of a screw so it will not be damaged

during firing like the others very quickly will be. But these screws

are prone to blow off &amp; cause damage to the gunner. There

is nothing for it but to use a proper touch-hole.

A touch-hole at the level

 of

the breach is the best because in in this way the cannon hardly pushes

back.

Gunner

There are three reinforcement rings on a cannon, one at the breech,

one in the middle, one at the mouth. When founders want to work on their

craft or render the cannon or other piece lighter &amp; easier to

cart around, they make it from the ring at the breech to the ring

in the middle of the thickness &amp; proportion of the balls, as is said

above. But from the ring in the middle to the ring of the mouth

&amp; they diminish it one line, or more or less, on

each side, always taking their measurements with the compass

from the straight line which they make in the middle of the

model of paper or otherwise. And this reduction amounts

to seven or eight quintals reduction &amp;

lightening in weight, and the piece is not less secure

for it. This is done for big pieces, but for gr

small pieces from lesser than the average, one

needs to observe the aforesaid proportion, &amp; draw the piece in a

continuous line from one end to the other. The trunnions are commonly

situated one foot from the ring of the middle,

from toward the edge of the breech.

But because some gunners prefer a piece which is weighted at the front

because it is easier to plant, to do this, one only needs to move the

trunnions closer to the breech &amp; further away from the middle. On

the contrary, if you want to render it s

more weighted at the back, you will move the trunnions

closer to the middle of the piece or place them further up toward the

mouth. When you bore your piece you make a fluted cast iron box

like a bedpost &amp; there ought to be sixteen channels or notches in

which you will slot sixteen blades quite evenly,

with in order that all together they cut &amp; scrape in the

same manner. Because if some were to not cut &amp; scrape, chambers

&amp; waves would be made in the cannon which would make it lopsided and

there would be a danger that the piece might break in the middle. In

order to avoid this, it is necessary that the borer should pass

evenly from the breech to the mouth, &amp; that the opening of the piece

should be evenly bored from one end to the other, because thus the

powder goes off all at once with more force. On the contrary, if

restrained, it goes sideways &amp; makes the piece break.

Cannonball

This is the true measure of the caliber, but the borer

always takes away a little more.

Petard

They are made better in crucible form, hollow at the

narrower at the bottom &amp; becoming larger toward the muzzle. It is

necessary to pestle the powder thoroughly &amp; put on top of it either

sand or cork or better still a fitted plate of wax

thoroughly pestled on top, for it seals precisely &amp; makes for

greater force. The ball only makes a hole, the powder alone makes

more of an effect. One holds that, once loaded &amp; kept in a dry place

for fifteen days, they have more force.

Culverin ball

Bastarde ball

Medium ball

Field piece

Falconet

Falconet of 4 quintals, alternatively passe-volant, is

8 pans long

3 quintals, is 9 pans long

2 quintals, is one cane long, which

is 8 Montpellier pans

1 quintal, is six pans and a

half

1 quintal and a half is 7 pans and a

half

60 lb musket, is 5

pans and a half or 6

5 quintals is eleven pans and a

half

The measure of the caliber of pieces

    

The numbers and dots show how many quintals the piece weighs

that carries the marked caliber.

Pewterers

They deem the best tin is the one that comes in

saulmons, which has not been remelted since it came from the

mine, because the masters remelt it a in

grille, weighing two or three lb, to easily

cut it up and sell it by the piece. And in this they often make a mixture of

leftovers from plates, solder &amp; common tin.

And to recognize the best one, it is the most lustrous, which looks

burnished, because it is the softest. Sometimes in their saulmons they find pieces of iron, stones &amp; similar

jumble to cheat on the weight. The tin from England is so hard that the miners put in

lead to soften it. The one that comes by way of Germany

is softer. Commonly, the sworn master pewterers, from

bonnes villes, add six lb of fine

lead on or eight on a quintal of fine

tin. The others, who work in the countryside,

put fifteen or 20 or as much as they can, and to cover up the blackness

of the lead they and its softness, they put in

looking-glass tin, 4 lb per quintal,

+ po which whitens &amp; hardens,

and a little six or eight lb of rosette on a

quintal to render the plate sonorous. 

To mold platters &amp; dishes, they make them out of pierre

porte morte, which is

grais, &amp; they turn &amp; polish around

them on the wheel. They melt their tin in an

dest iron pot on a charcoal fire, and with an iron spoon that holds

almost a sufficient quantity for a platter, they cast

leu in their cold molds, which they keep

joined &amp; tight between their knees. And soon after, they

open the molds so that they do not heat up, &amp; having taken

out the cast which is on the female side, &amp; which breaks easily.

Then, with a cloth which soaks in water, which they

always have beside them, they rub the middle of the back of the dish

&amp; around the edge, so that it comes out better, and rub the

female mold with it.

+

When the tin is fine, one adds less glass-looking tin,

namely 4 lb per quintal, but if the tin is base, 

that is to say alloyed with a lot of lead, one puts

at least five or six lb of looking-glass tin to it.

If there is hardly any looking-glass tin, one puts about two or

three lb per quintal. One puts eight lb of

rosette. But if there is a lot of looking-glass tin

one, like 4 or 5 lb, one only puts six of

rosette. And commonly, per quintal of tin, one

adds x lb of both.

    Go to the fifth leaf.

Stucco for molding

Take tragacanth gum and put it to soak until, having drunk

its water, it is swollen &amp; rendered like jelly. Then

grind it quite hard on marble &amp; next take

rye flour, which is better than wheat

because it is more humid and does not make the paste as brittle, and

sprinkle your tragacanth gum with it, &amp; continue to grind

and mix in thus, little by little, le et mesler

legi the very finely sieved flour. And knead it as if

you wanted to make bread, until you you perceive that

it has enough body &amp; is as firm as bread dough that one is

ready to put in the oven. This is recognized when it can

stretch enough without breaking. And if it was not strong enough, it

would not sti release well. Once the paste is prepared, rub

the hollow form au u with oil, with a

brush, in order that the oil penetrates everywhere to make it

release better, and press the paste inside quite hard. And if it does

not release well, mix in more flour until it has enough body.

With this you will mold whatever work you like, masks or garlands, which

will be dry within one day. Next, you will apply them with

strong glue or paste glue, as you like, and you will be

able to paint and decorate them with gold &amp; all colors. One

makes ceiling ornaments with it in Rome. One can make bed

ornaments with it. If you want that the work stays white, it

is better to mold with plaster instead of flour. It is

true that it is more brittle and firm as well, but one needs to prepare

it like this: temper it, when it is powdered strong, in a

good amount of water so that it is clear, &amp; grind

it several times a day for fifteen days. Then pour off the

water by tilting, and gather the plaster &amp; grind it

finely on marble, &amp; place it in some kind of

clean lead vessel, so that no dust &amp; dirt falls into

it, &amp; leave it in the open air &amp; in the serain 

for fifteen days with its water, and

it will become matte, strong, white and light, very suitable for making

a seat for burnished gold. And this, in powder form, you

can mix, instead of flour, with tragacanth gum, and your

work will be very beautiful. Lacking plaster, you can mix in well

ground chalk or ceruse, &amp; try bole &amp;

similar things. This stucco with the tragacanth gum has

the quality that, yielding when it is not yet dry, it can be accommodated on either

round or flat things, as you like. It is to make an ornament at little

expense.

Flour is not good in this, but chalk or ceruse is.

Color of gold without gold on silver

Color your applied silver leaf with terre emerita, 

and once dry, give a coat of spike

lavender oil varnish and of sandarac. And it will be

more beautiful than tinsel.

Layer of burnished gold on paper

Make your seat of starch soaked in water &amp;

your gold will burnish very well. Clear starch water

layered on the paper, then dried, &amp; repeated in this manner 3

times, is a good layer for burnished gold on simple paper

&amp; has no body.

Removing stains

Good eau-de-vie removes them if you rub the garment with it.

Seat for gold

Ground terra emerita with some saffron, all

of it tempered with very clear strong glue &amp; passed

through a linen cloth.

Extraction of oils

Apothecaries say that anything which does not adhere to

the mortar while pestling is

oleaginous.

Dragon’s blood

Take a well chosen tear of it which shows off its transparent red.

And in a glass bottle put the best eau-de-vie you can find, in sufficient quantity. For

it And stop it well and so diligently that it does not vent,

otherwise it would be worth nothing. And leave it thus for a

long time, because the longer it stays there, the

more beautiful &amp; better it will be &amp; it will dissolve if it is

good, otherwise it will become like wine lees. When you want to use

it, make a small hole in the stopper of the bottle &amp; pour a

little &amp; stop it again each time, then apply it on gold.

The good kind of dragon’s blood can be found in

large pieces like cake this one has no value and is

adulterated &amp; once broken it shows on its edges scales,

transparent as ro rouge clair enamel, it is

also lumpy in some parts like small rubies. The eau-de-vie needs to be very ardent &amp;

passed several times.

The darker dragon’s blood is the best &amp; has more of

a tint; it is the tear that is found in gr pieces like

peas and large hazelnuts which look like

    

.

I put it in common eau-de-vie, mixing in some

aquafortis to give it strength. At the beginning the

water took on a slight tint, but at the end there was only an

appearance of tragacanth gum with which I think they adulterate

the dragon’s blood.

When it is applied on burnished gold, it is prone to break. For

this reason, some coat it with turpentine varnish. Cold delays

the action of the water and the extraction of the color. And for

this reason, one can keep it close to the fire.

Lead

The best, fattest &amp; softest is brought from Germany and

is not in saulmon, but in lattes of around an

arm's length &amp; three fingers' width.

It is transported to Lyon, and from this, the leaf is made for

small mirrors in Nuremberg.

Pewterer

They also make their molds from metal which lasts

longer &amp; molds more cleanly than grais, because the

plate comes out without flashing &amp; smooth. But this is for the

rich because a mold costs fifteen or sixteen

frans. They are mainly made of metal, for basins &amp;

ewers &amp; salt cellars &amp; similar things which are fashioned.

For pints, molds are made with

white clay earth mixed with horse dung &amp; cloth

waste &amp; well beaten, because the pints, being sunk in a half round,

would not be able to release as well from the grais mold

as from the earth, which is soft. One makes the noyau of 

the mold of the said pints in grais.

In metal molds, one makes vents and casts all at once,

which is the reason that in the middle of the dish, no smoky black line

which comes from the vapor &amp; fumes of the metal that is cast,

which is the cause that in that spot, the work is lumpy &amp; very often

pierced. However they repair it with solder du

n, as is said. These fumes are made right in the middle of the

cast, &amp; in grais molds.

The plate can be hammered mar to make

it more vendable. But it will not last as long.

Depending on the size of their platters &amp; plates, they have

notches on the spoke of their iron wheels. And when they

want to apply

any dish or plate, they loosen &amp; undo with the strike of a

hammer the iron wedges that slide along the spokes of

the wheel. And, when they are at the notch and points that they

need, they tighten the said wedges, wedging them with the

hammer.

When their plates or dishes have been cast, soldered if needed,

&amp; purged of surrounding flashing with the hot soldering

iron &amp; then with a large file, they adapt it on the

wheel; &amp; first of all they wrap their

desgrusoue desgrusouer

with a rope, as thick rope as

the little finger, &amp; lean it firmly on the

crossbar to secure it well. And while someone else promptly

turns the wheel, they guide the sharp edge of the

esgrusouer by hand

s toward the edge of the round hollow, &amp; gently

guide it to the center of the circle. And this

desgrusouer is for removing the first rough &amp;

lumpy skins of the work. And next they even it out with ae cutting

iron called a plane, the sharp edge of which

they rub with a little putty on leather nailed

onto a piece of wood having, and this in such a way

that the flesh or grain is on the outside, for if the sharp edge of this

plane was not thus rubbed &amp; burnished, it would

not polish &amp; not burnish the tin,

au which would stay white, &amp; not black &amp;

burnished like a mirror. Moreover, they repair the work for the second

time with this plane as they did with the

esgrusouer. Then, with a knife or another

sharp iron, they scrape the edges of the platters or

plates to smooth them so that they are not found sharp when handled

Their hammers must be quite even &amp; polished, and if by

chance the rust, the or some other use, has

damaged them, they first polish them with emery stone powder,

then they finish burnishing &amp; smoothing with the putty.

Otherwise they would not strike neatly. It is also necessary that the

surface of the anvils be the same.

New vine

Having taken well, if you want it to grow strong branches, having

plowed it, put at each foot two handfuls of pigeon

dung.

Colored waters

Distilled urine, distilled vinegar and

eau-de-vie take on a cerulean and green tint from pulverized and

finely ground aes ustum. And this tincture is red

copper in its residue if you distil the aforesaid things through a

filter.

Varnish resistant to water

Flanders varnish, made with turpentine &amp;

oil of turpentine or mastic, can come off and does not

hold up in the rain. But that made with white walnut oil, 

as you have done, holds in the rain and is

very clear &amp; beautiful &amp; dries soon. This is why one uses this

one for painted banners &amp; signs that one carries in the

rain.

Fruit made from sugar

One does not paint them with a paintbrush like other

s things with moistened color, because the

sugar would melt. But one rubs them with color with the

finger.

Painter

Scribes achieve darkening of lake &amp; other

colors for garments with egg yolk, but this is trumpery and

does not last.

Others glaze reds from minium &amp; others which are not

beautiful in oil M using glair of 

egg, and it appears to be done in oil. But

humidity corrupts all this.

Brushes

Take those that have been used a little by white-limers,

for the harshness of the lime &amp; use make them more handleable.

Painting from nature

One ought not to undertake to work on it in overcast

weather because you would make your flesh colors browner than

one ought to.

Painting on glass

For blue, they take the coarsest azur d’esmail &amp; grind it

on shale, &amp; mix in two or three rosary

beads’ worth of rocaille or more, according to the

quantity of the work. And having done their drawing with noir

d’escaille (which is painted toward the light with the piece

of glass upright), they lay all their pieces on white

paper when for knowing by the whiteness of the

paper the lighting of their histories and as

set down all colors which are of one kind all in one go. Then they heat

it up.

The body of the cuirass

The high plates of the pauldron of the brassard  are like a

masterpiece of the masters, for it is necessary that

these pieces be very precisely hollowed &amp;

adjusted in order that the movement may be free. Cuirass bodies

must be very evenly beaten &amp; driven with the hammer.

Morions from Milan are all in one piece &amp; thus better

than those that are of two.

Painter

As soon as the colors of panels are well dried, the Flemish

varnish them so they do not die any more than they already have &amp; remain in that

state.

The one who knows to work well in distemper will work well in

oil. But, on the contrary, the one who knows how to work well in

oil will not work in distemper.

For layering gold in distemper

Common painters &amp; scribes make

batture, that is joiner’s glue tempered with

water on the fire, moderately clear, mixed with very little

honey, that is to say a few drops to make it stick. And

with it they form letters, or that which they want to gild,

with a paintbrush, and immediately after layer the

gold, but they never do their work quite neatly, and if there is

a lot of honey it dries only with great difficulty. This layer is

undone in the rain.

Others do better, they temper candy sugar in water and

mix it with sanguine that they call

cocon, thoroughly ground, adding in a little

soap. This is done neatly, &amp; renders gold beautiful if

one uses it as the seat.

Mat maker

They make two kinds of them in Toulouse, one to hang on the

partition walls of rooms, which they weave almost as fine as

the straw phats worn by villagers. And

they make them in long bands, some the width of ten

b straws, others of thirteen. And they

work on them mainly in summer. And in

winter, when they put it to use, they sew it. But beforehand,

they put it in dye and commonly make it in three colors, green,

red, and sometimes violet. The green one is made in a single 

pastel woad dye, because green being made from yellow and blue, the

pastel woad discharging itself onto the straw,

which shows its dark yellow, one obtains bright green. For the red, they

use alum and brazilwood. For the violet, they use

pastel woad &amp; a little copperas, which

browns the blue with its black tint.

Glassworker

They do not have the invention for making a perfect red in a work

which one needs to reheat. Nonetheless, try the red from German, 

which is rouge d’escaille. They make their common red with sanguine, 

looking-glass tin, rocaille, 

litharge &amp; a little iron scales. The

said red is applied on one side &amp; the other of the glass in order

that it has more color; if it were applied on one side only, it would be too

pale orange.

Founder

They buy rosette at xx lb a quintal,

which is harder to melt than latten because it is softer. For,

the softer the great metals

# are, the soft more difficult they are

to melt. The tin for bells, which is fine tin

is more and which is brittle, is easier to melt than lead,

which is soft. Latten made brittle by the calamine is

melted more quickly than red copper. The metal, which is the

substance of bells, mixed with tin, and very brittle, is soon

melted. The more silver is alloyed, the sooner it melts, that is

why solder is made with it. In Germany they make very

light candlesticks, it is because they turn them by means of

water, but they are breakable. A quintal of

per fine coppersmith’s rosette is

sold for xxx or 40 lb. Another, which founders use,

is sold for xii or xv lb. The quintal of metal,

six lb. Put in

#

Gold, silver, copper,

latten, iron.

Knife for cutting the nose or a

finger

This is a well-furbished knife, nailed through the

middle in such a way that it easily moves to one side &amp; the other

&amp; the side  A, as readily as the side B, is hidden 

inside its handle marked C. The two tenons you see at the tip of

the knife are for locking it on one side or the other against a

nail which is at the butt of the said handle, in order 

that, when one wants to press hard on something to

cut it, it does not come out from the handle. You may allow the

side marked B to cut for demonstration purposes, but not

much, but the side that is notched A and marked A must

not cut. It It is sufficient that it be furbished well. And

also the notch needs to be as thick as the back of a

knife in order that it cannot cause pain. And you

will only show the part of the knife which is not notched, for

the side with the notch needs to be mar hidden

inside the handle. And when you want to cut the nose

or a finger, pretend to sharpen your knife on the

thigh and, while while doing this, turn the

knife deftly. &amp; the part with the notch, which you will

cover l with one finger, will come into

your hand, and you will place the notch, colored with

brazilwood rosette or black cherry juice, upon

the nose.

The conjuror ought not to amuse himself by watching what he

is doing, but look at the spectators and give them plenty of

good hocus-pocus words so that they look at his face &amp; not

at his hands.

X For relighting an extinguished candle between your

hands without blowing

    

X Take a small stick of well dried between

wicker and cut from it a small piece like a

toothpick, &amp; la m put one end

between your index finger &amp; middle finger and

clasp both your hands, fingers well joined, and pass

them deftly around the lit candle as if you wanted to cover it

with them, &amp; your wicker will light, &amp; immediately remove

your hands jo thus clasped, &amp;

immediately put out the candle. And then put your

hands around it again as if you wanted to cover it, &amp; your

little of light p

wicker light, by means of the smoke

that you are holding with your two palms the candle

will light. Then immediately extinguish your wicker &amp;

secretly cast it aside.

For making it seem that to someone that he has a piece

of silver on his forehead

Take a token or piece of silver and wet it

and make it hold against your forehead. Then say to the

bystander that if you put it thus on his forehead,

he will not be able to make it fall without lifting his hands

to it, no matter how he shakes his head. And making it seem as

if you are placing it on his forehead, retain it in your

hand &amp; wet your thumb with your

saliva then press it quite strongly on his

forehead. And thinking he has the piece on his

forehead due to the coolness of the

saliva, he will shake his ears &amp; will get

nowhere.

For making blood or wine issue from

someone’s forehead or from a wall

    

Take a funnel or funnel of fer blanc which is double-walled in the body d

but not in the spout. Make a small hole at the top edge &amp;

au another, slightly bigger, on the inner wall that

will be a little above the spout, just as you can see in the adjacent

example. Then when you want to use it, put in wine

or liquid rosette of Brazilwood or black cherry

juice, and blocking the hole of the spout the with your

little finger, make sure that the funnel is well

filled in order that the wine can enter there between the

double walls through the hole at the side, &amp; if it does not enter

well, making it seem as if you are tasting the wine,

suck &amp; draw in a little air, drinking where the little hole

is. Next, make one of the close bystanders drink the rest of

the wine or cast it aside or let it flow through the tip, but

before, you must have pressed your thumb well over the hole on

the top edge, because in this way, by the compression of air, the

wine will be retained between the double walls. Then with a

bodkin rounded at the tip &amp; that goes into its handle, you

make it seem as if you pierce the forehead of someone who holds

a glass in his hand, and while you pierce, you

cover what you are doing with the funnel that you hold

close to #

#

his forehead. Then removing your thumb from over the

hole on the top edge, the air, being free, will make the

wine issue from between the double walls through the hole marked

B, &amp; fall through the tip marked C into the glass.

But you must make the fellow bend his head enough in

order to do it well.

For telling someone that by putting holding a

finger to his forehead, you will prevent him from

exiting a chamber

X Make him put his arm around a

bedpost or something similar, &amp; with the same arm,

let him hold a finger to his forehead.

X Wager someone e that walking

to a certain place and back, he cannot say boot without spur four times

in a row

X If he tries to saya it,

but be sure that he speaks loudly, once he has been

there &amp; back, you will tell him that he has lost, because he needed

to say boot four times without saying spur, for that is your

wager.

For making a candlestick hold to the wall without

making a hole in it

X Make a servant hold it to the

wall.

X How not to break a glass with a

log or a large stick

X You will cut from it a small piece as thick as a

toothpick, &amp; thus you will give him something from a

log or a large stick with which he will not be able

to break the glass.

Writing cunningly

Cut some long strips of fine parchment &amp; mark them

according to their order with A B C &amp; caetera, then have them sewn inside

the hem of a shirt of rough cloth, like that of a

messenger, who, if you want to tear up his shirt, will know

nothing of it.

For melting or transmuting a jewel put inside a

box

Take a box of boxwood banded with rings, as you see,

into which will easily fit another small box, like that which

you see marked B, and make it so that it does not touch the bottom of the

large one marked A, but that there is some distance. Also, that which enters

the large box must be smooth, but the rim must be made with

rings so that, being joined, it appears as if they are one and the same

box. You must also have a round leather cover of the

same length as the box, as you see marked C, which fits

let easily &amp; surrounds the said

boxes thus placed one within the other. But before you do your

trick, you must put at the bottom of the larger box powdered

gold or silver, or mercury amalgamated with silver,

and then place the little box marked B on top. Next, holding

the box with your index finger on top, you present

it, and seeing only the bottom of the smaller

box marked B, one places a jewel or something

similar in it. This being done, placing the box on the

table, you cover it with the leather box, and

making the requisite gestures, you will remove the leather

box, &amp; without showing the inside, will put it on the

table &amp; let it be recognized that the jewel is

in the placed in the bottom of the small box marked

B. Then you will gently place the leather box back,

&amp; after saying

inhonorificabilitidinitadtudinibus, you will take

the top of the leather box with two fingers,

and with the clasping it more firmly than usual, at the same

time you d will lift pe the

smaller box that is inside &amp; which contains the

jewel, &amp; you will gently put both on the table,

then you will pour the powder or amalgam that is at the bottom of the

large box, then replace the leather box with

the box inside it, as it was at the start. Then, removing the

leather box without removing the smaller one, you will

show the jewel at the bottom which has returned to its previous

state, holding your index finger on the rim of the box

so that it does not slip.

For telling someone that you will show teach him something

he does not know, and neither do you

Take a string or a small stick and take the

measurement from the tip of his ear to the tip of his

nose and show it to him. Thus you will teach him something

you did not know, and neither did he.

For supporting a bucket of water on the tips of three

knives laid down without touching the ground

According to the strength of your knives, either

kitchen or table, you will make them support a large

weight on their tips laid down &amp; arranged in a triangle, edge to

edge, as you can see, &amp; they would not touch the ground. And if,

after arranging them this way, you turn them the other way without

unjoining them, the tips of the handles can also support a large weight

without touching the ground. You can easily adapt this to another

use with pikes, with joists, or to promptly make a tripod in a

camp with three halberd points. If the edge of the

knife marked A faces from right to left, the butts of the

handles will rise, but if the edge of the same knife faces from

left to right, the tips will rise.

For boiling an egg in cold water without fire

Empty an egg from both ends so that nothing remains inside,

then fill it with quicklime &amp; natural sulfur, then

stop the holes with wax &amp; put it in water so that it

floats by two or three fingers.

For making rabbits come out of a burrow

Take some embers in a pot, &amp; having put

sulfur on top, put it in the burrows &amp; block it

with something light.

For preventing someone from eating a foodstuff

Dry some calf’s foot root, otherwise

arum, &amp; sprinkle the foodstuff

swith it. There is no danger in this.

See Mathiol.

For transmuting grain from one vessel to

another

Take two small wooden bushels of the same

size, which should be hollow on the bottom exterior by about the

width of the back of a knife or more. One of these

will remain empty, &amp; on the bottom of the other you will glue

kernels of grain with starch such that it will be

covered entirely with grain, &amp; it will seem to be

filled with it. Take also a wooden bell into which you

will place as much grain as can be held within the

capacity of one of the bushels, and over the top put a simple

piece of leather that fits tightly inside the

bell. Put all into a bag or a napkin or a

folded handkerchief, if you do not want to use a

conjuror’s pouch. First show the empty

bushel, then in front of the audience fill it with

grain, then put it back in the napkin. Next,

leave that one there &amp; take the other where the

le grain is glued with starch

&amp; it will seem to be the first one, filled with

grain. Put it under a hat &amp; place the

bell gently on the table for the first time. And if

you like, promptly &amp; without stopping, show the bottom which will be

covered with white leather of the color of the

wood. Then pretending to show the bushel that is

under the hat, you will turn it deftly to the side that is

empty &amp; leave it covered. Then you will command that by

invisibilium the grain pass into the

bell, which you will have tapped shortly before on the

table a little strongly, &amp; the grain will

fall to the bottom &amp; cover the piece of leather.

Then lift the hat; the bushel

semb will be found empty and the bell full

of grain, which you will scrape deftly along with the

piece of leather

so that it cannot be seen, &amp; you will very subtly with conceit cast

it into the bag or pouch.

For transmuting a ball into a thimble,

cunning

    

of leather

Make a small sheath of plain leather, such as cow or

morocco, somewhat thick, as tall as three

fingers, sewn like the finger of a glove &amp; large

enough that two fingertips can fit inside &amp; which, at

the tip, which is a little puckered, has a round hole as large as a

double liard. Take one two similar

boxwood balls, &amp; let one be hollow &amp;

open with a round hole on one side only so that the thimble can

fit inside. Thus, when you want to perform, you will place your

leather sheath on the table with the

ball that is not hollow. Pass a stick inside the

leather sheath to show that there is nothing there, also

show the full ball, and hold the one which is hollow &amp; has

the thimble inside it by your little finger &amp; ring

finger, and do this with your right hand

with which you are holding the stick. Next, you take your

leather sheath &amp; place it over the hollow

ball which is in your fingers, &amp; making it seem as

if you are putting some oribus powder over it, you put

back the leather mold that

contains the ball with the thimble on the

table, then you take the round &amp; solid ball

remaining on the table, and command it to enter from under the

table into the leather sheath. Then, when lifting

the leather, the ball seems to be the same,

although it is the hollow one. Then you cover it again &amp; command it to

become invisible. And then, lifting the sheath while pressing

it, you will remove it &amp; the ball along with it; &amp;

l putting it aside with the sheath,

&amp; a  in its place will be found a thimble

for the ladies whose bottom hurts, that is to say, the bottom of the

needle.

Founder

Kitchen pots are made well, in order not to give a bad taste to

the food, with the same metal the bells are made of. It is

true that founablesders mix in

more latten to make them yellower, to make them more vendable.

But the latten by itself, &amp; at a mere touch, is

stinking &amp; of bad odor.

Latten does not lose, or only slightly, its calamine

in an four à vent when it is melted in a crucible, nor

in a wood furnace, but it does in a

bellows furnace because bellows give violent fire.

Four à vent

It is necessary that it be narrower at the mouth than at the bottom. And it

is enough that the crucible be able to enter in it, &amp; that there be

space to remove &amp; take it with pincers.

Glassworkers’ glass

One says that in Lorraine &amp; in Flanders

well-made glass is made of fern ashes &amp;

pebbles, and first they blow a long bubble, which another

worker, with long shears, cleaves &amp; cuts lengthwise.

Then, having set this long, cleft bubble on a stone or

large plate that is in the furnace, a little less

hot than for the melt, it is left to stretch out. And again in

addition to this, they flatten it with a long &amp; thick round

iron rod, then they remove it to the annealing furnace. 

It is made in the same way in England more beautifully.

Near Rouen in France, plate glass is made with

some salt of saltwort &amp; pebbles,

that is whiter &amp; more delicate than that of Lorraine. For

plate glass can be melted with a candle &amp; not that

from Lorraine. That of plate is blown in a long bubble, of which

another cuts the end, then the blower flattens it while turning it &amp;

while touching it to a surface that is on the ground,

A then puts it to anneal. Thus the

middle, whence it is begun, still remains.

The glass can be cleft again with the light of a candle

by wetting, but not as precisely as with the hot iron.

Founder

The metal whitens the more it is melted, because the

tin does not go away but rather mixes in more. And, by holding it

a long time in the fire, the filth is eaten away, which is what 

makes it brittle. If you want to chase the tin from the

copper, after it is quite hot, throw in saltpeter often.

This only &amp; not the fire separates it, &amp; purifies it, &amp; eats

the filth away. The metal is cast very neatly. The

copper is prone to swell, but because it is soft, it can be fixed

with a hammer.

Medicine for the stomach

which heats it and unstops the liver

 Take Take wormwood powder, dissolve it

in capilli veneris syrup or preserves, &amp; make

with it an opiate of which you will take once a week on

a host soaked in wine. Then you will be able to drink a

finger of sufficiently tempered wine. This

dissipates the phlegm &amp; the winds which arise from it. You can take

six pepper grains &amp; grate their rinds such

that they are smooth, &amp; swallow them without chewing. This benefits

the stomach without heating the liver.

Foil backings for the  gemstones

Once made, one ought not to keep them in any case of iron

or metal, for this stains them, but in some box of

For keeping candles from dripping and making them white

Having made them, put into the mold fresh water well

beaten with bran, which should not at all be purged of its

flour, so that the water becomes white. And dip your

candles in that, then leave them to dry. And do thus two or three

times.

Gardener

For sowing melons well, it needs to be at the end of a

moon cycle, for otherwise they would bud too many leaves &amp;

not bear enough fruit. Make small e holes, two

fingers by two fingers, with a stake

&amp; put in each two or three seeds. Next, take very fine

earth &amp; fill the holes lightly with it. Next, spread over

all the thickness of a thumb of havets, that

is to say wheat fl chaff, in order that the

coming rain does not beat the earth &amp; prevent their birth.

Havets attract field mice who eat the seeds. And

for avoiding this, one must moisten them with s a

decoction of wormwood.

Glassworker

Some do not apply gris d’escaille to the glass

for painting on glass, but trace on the clean

glass with noir à huile. But it is very necessary that the

wood be rid of grease, for if it has

grease, however little, the color will not take on it at all. And likewise, if the

glassworker who is working has a stench from his

nose or his mouth la, &amp; he

breathes on the glass, the color will not take on it.

Those who discovered the invention of working in small works of soft

enamels use only esmail d’azur, which is blue,

&amp; esmail colombin, which is the color of purple,

which they soften with rocaille or leaded glass.

As for the yellow, they make it from silver, the red from

sanguine, as is said elsewhere, the black &amp; gray &amp;

shadows with noir d’escaille, either strong or weak,

the flesh color with clear sanguine. The green is made first

from yellow, then on top they coat esmail d’azur, either

strong or weak, according to whether they want to make it bright or

dark.

Yellow Amber

It is cut with a file, then one passes a certain pulverized

salt over it, which an Englishman called

desramonet. But I suppose that this was pulverized

pumice stone, for it had the harshness of arène. And with a

taut cord, he polished his amber, then passed

tripoli from Bretagne on it with the

finger, others with a piece of leather

or a cane. Amber loses its color if an unhealthy person

wears it, &amp; becomes whitish. But to restore it, it needs to be

soaked for one night in urine, then boiled a

little in it.

Sapphire

One finds sapphires that one calls of the trellis, because they are pierced and it is said that a

certain king had made from these a certain ornament in the

shape of a trellis, as would perhaps be the Screen of 

Charlemagne, as it is called, in the treasure of Saint Denis, in which the gemstones are

mounted without leaf, so as to have the enjoyment of the light on one

side &amp; the other, &amp; to show their vividness. I have a white one one

that seems to be rough &amp; pierced, and is spotted all over with blue

blemishes. I am of the opinion that these are artificial &amp; that they

are of taffer or very clear esmail azuré

melted entirely on the sapphire. The file bites on it

as on the beryl.

Saffron

It is counterfeited &amp; augmented with marigold leaves

half-dried, &amp; twisted like a thread, &amp; put in the

hottest sun to dry, &amp; is mixed, &amp; the said

marigold even gives some color.

Sapphire

Stone cutters sometimes choose old pieces of antique

glass in church windows, which are much thicker than

those of today &amp; are of more lively colors. If it is for

souf sapphire, they choose beautiful blue

&amp; from such a place that there are no pieces

grains, if it is possible. And having cut it in squares with

emery, they cut it in bevel &amp; polish it. And in this manner,

they counterfeit very beautiful sapphires. The old 

esmail d’azur for silver verging on aquamarine was very

appropriate for counterfeiting sapphires, but it is scarcely

found. One counterfeits aquamarines with white glass, but

they take it from the bottom of the glass.

Amber

The orangeish color that is in transparent amber and in the

other one that has body is not internal, for on the inside it is

whitish. But through age it or wearing it, it acquires this

reddish crust. This is why those who cut it with the file or on

the wheel do not remove, if it is possible, this crust. But

they only polish it, rubbing it with a willow

stick or other soft wood dipped into water &amp;

dusted with tripoli of Brittany, and it takes a

beautiful polish. If it is too straw yellow &amp; you want to intensify

its color, hang it inside a chimney where there is much

soot &amp; smoke, and it will take on a reddish-orange

color. Try to take the most whitish transparent one, and put it under

dung to turn it green, like bones. Or smoke it

in a closed space, with the smoke of safre or

manganese &amp; other drugs that you know. Or in

urine &amp; distilled vinegar mixed with colors, or in the

vapor of aquafortis boiling in copper, or

aquafortis boiling with silver &amp; sal

ammoniac. &amp; some cut amber in facets on a wheel

of soft wood with putty instead of

emery, &amp; jet also. The salt called by the English de armonic is a mineral salt that resembles marble stone and is a very hard mineral with large pieces, like that of Cardona &amp; Monserrat.

I have experimented by making it boil in lye or corrosive

water, it turns reddish on the surface. And if it is rubbed against

fir &amp; soft wood before it is cooled, it is

easily cut.

Black color for dyeing

Take lye of quicklime &amp; litharge, mix &amp; soak,

&amp; you will make a tawny dye, &amp; by reiterating it

you will make black. Try other colors with lye of lime.

Against nose bleed and for dyeing

Pestle some sorrel or lapathum

acutum of the sort that is red-veined, which is called

dragon’s blood, and apply it de to

the forehead of the one who bleeds. This herb is a strong

dye &amp; makes beautiful violet.

Beautiful artichokes

One needs to prune them every year so that only

one stalk is left, &amp; water them thoroughly. L

Also replant some every year, for the second

year they will bear very beautiful fruit.

Planting trees

One says that rarely a tree planted on St. Paul's

day fails to take, &amp; for covering the bark, cow dung

is very appropriate, for it is not undone in the rain like earth.

Merchant

Those who sell velvet &amp; es other

stuffs by retail do not make double-entry books because selling by

retail &amp; in detail it would be too much effort for them. They have

only their sales book &amp; their account book. But those who sell in

bulk &amp; those who traffic in pastel woad have

double-entry books.

Scarlets

Because one aulne costs seven or eight

lb to dye, they use cloths worth seven or eight

francs an aulne. But whoever wants something

beautiful se la should buy white cloth worth

fifteen francs an aulne &amp; have it dyed with

pure scarlet pastel woad &amp; a little cochineal.

Black cloth is thin so that the dyeing is

inexpensive.

Goldsmith

They assemble silver filings with saltpeter which

refines it &amp; does not make it brittle. But gold filings are

assembled with borax or, to save the borax, with

lead, which refines the gold &amp; softens it, for the

saltpeter would make it brittle, which silver does not do.

This is why, to save money, goldsmiths use it to assemble, in

order to save borax, which costs viii sous per

ounce, &amp; saltpeter x sous per

lb.

When goldsmiths have thus assembled their silver

filings with saltpeter, a red enamel vitrifies at the

bottom of the crucible. I do not know if the copper

mixed in with the silver is the cause. Try for

enamel.

Pastel woad

It is grown in Lauragais where the depth of the earth is so

fertile that if one were to grow wheat there every

year, it would lie flat for being too vigorous. This is why

one alternately does pastel woad and wheat

there. For the cultivation of pastel woad, one ploughs

the soil with shovels of iron, as gardeners do.

Next, one harrows it with rakes, &amp; breaks it up finely as

for sowing cooking herbs. One commonly sows it on

St. Anthony’s day in January. One makes eight harvests

of it. The first ones are better. The best pastel woad

of Lauragais is the one from Carmail &amp; the one

from Auragne. And sometimes the pastel woad

is good in one field &amp; in the one close by it will hardly

have worth. The goodness of the pastel woad is known

when, put in the mouth, it gives a taste as of

vinegar, or when crumbling &amp; breaking it, it has some

mold-like veins which are as if golden or silver. One assays it in the

dyers’ vat, and to fill a vat with it, one

needs six balls of it. In this, one dyes several locks of

wool, and if it dyes fifteen times, it is said to be fifteen

florins, if it gives xx dyings, xx florins. The good

kind dyes up to 30 times &amp; commonly up to xxv or 26.

Enamel

Enamel takes more readily on copper than on

silver. It is true that the cut needs to be well hollowed out

&amp; rough. Azure in body &amp; the red called gules, white

enamel &amp; dense green take to it very well. Having

enamelled, one gilds the foeillages of the

engraving. Copper has a similar

hardness for engraving as fine silver or

pistolet

gold.

Colors for illumination on glass

In order that your turpentine colors do not spread, &amp;

hold together, mix in a little of tear of mastic together with

the turpentine.

Tracing some history on glass

If you want to trace some history in intaglio on glass, you

can do it in different ways. Lay your glass pane on,

the thinnest you can find, on the printed history, &amp; having cleaned

the glass well with lye &amp; ash so that it is not

greasy, trace over the lines visible to you with noir à

huile or noir d’escaille with the

paintbrush; if you want to paint with colors in the

fashion of glassworkers, who wash their glass pane with

noir d’escaille &amp; then scrape &amp; clear the parts

which they want to coat with color, leaving that which is necessary for

shading. But if you want to make gilt histories on glass

with a background of colors, which imitates the basse-taille of

goldsmiths, gild your entire glass pane with

gum water or garlic juice or milk of the fig tree.

Then moisten your printed history between two wet

linen cloths, and lay it down on the gilt

glass. Then with a pin mounted on the end of a small

stick, follow the lines of your history as if you wanted to

pounce it, &amp; thus you will exactly trace it on the gilding of

the glass. &amp; next you will clear the background &amp; that

which needs to be blank with a quite pointy steel awl,

&amp; neatly follow once more the lines &amp; accomplish your work

&amp; make your faces &amp; flesh colors in argent moulu;

then you shall fill the background with azur d’esmail or

verdigris or fine laque platte 

platte tempered with clear

turpentine, mixed with a little of tear of mastic if you want

that the colors are more even &amp; do not spread. Next, layer on

the back of the glass &amp; over the colors a white tin

leaf. And once this is dry, you can cover the tin leaf

of with color to hide your secret. The tin leaf gives

light to the colors. Thus you will be able to paint without being

at all expert in painting. If your glass pane is bulging as

if taken from the belly of some jar, it will show all the better for it. When you apply

your turpentine colors to your glass panes, first place

them on a hot tile &amp;, once they are hot, spread your colors &amp;

leave it a while on the tile, then lay down your tin sheet.

Dye

Some take the root of lapathium acutum

maius, which resembles monk’s

rhubarb or sorrel, &amp; with the root, which

is yellow in the summer, they dye thread &amp;

similar things.

Aquafortis

Some put on for four pounds of

substance of aquafortis four which are in the

retort four ounces of common water in the

receptacle, which is better than putting it into the

retort. One de-phlegms &amp; calcines alum in order that

the water does not have as much dregs. Several make it without

de-phlegming the alum.

Vinegar

One holds certain that heating red-hot the mineral salt, which resembles

marble &amp; which one calls Cardona salt in

Catalonia &amp; at the border of Spain, thr

&amp; throwing it in the all red or quite hot into wine, 

that it turns it into very good vinegar.

Some make it with water poured on pomace soured after

being pressed by vintagers, but it does not keep, &amp;

spoils in heat &amp; thunder storms.

Buttons of vermeilles

Because vermeilles do not fear fire, one cuts them

into lozenges flat on one side, then one joins them

together in a star shape in a paste of ground enamel, next one

melts it &amp; one gilds the enamel with gold leaf

which one reheats.

Grottos

To fill some empty place that cannot be laden with some sort of

hanging rocks, one puts a piece of thick parchment close to the

fire, which shrinks &amp; crumples. Then one paints it with

distemper, then in oil. Next one affixes it.

Cross of the commanders of Malta

This beautiful rouge clair which makes the field of

the white enamel cross is blood of fine tear of

dragon’s blood tempered with eau-de-vie

or else Indian laque platte, which in my opinion is made

in Flanders, tempered with clear turpentine &amp; tear

of mastic &amp; laid down on a silver leaf, not the kind

which the painters use, but a thicker kind, which is

burnished by those who make gemstone foils

Av or by goldsmiths, &amp; that gives it

this beautiful brilliance.

Latten and calamine

Founders do not melt latten in a

à vent bellows furnace but in

crucibles, for in a à vent bellows furnace &amp;

amid the charcoals, the calamine would go away.

A

Metal

Tin should be pure for if there is any lead, it will

go up in smoke while melting. Mixed tin holds in the fire for a

long time but the cendrée separates

it.

Aquafortis

If your retort is well luted, you ought not to surround it

with ashes, which would only get in the way of chasing

the spirits properly. But when, at the end, you give it violent

fire, surround it with chacoals which should be lit elsewhere beforehand,

as those in the furnace should be, in order that they do not

crackle &amp; do not make smoke. Put the said lit charcoals around the body

of the retort, &amp; not close to the neck, which does not need

to be heated as vigorously. The top grate, where you set your

retort, is sufficiently far, one dour or

half a foot, from the bottom grate where the

charcoal is placed, for by doing this not as much of it is

wasted.

Garden lily

If one breaks it at its first blossom &amp; it will bud &amp; bloom

only in the following year, &amp; I believe

bulbous herbs do this.

Sand

The sand cast for casting should be chosen neither so

lean that it has no hold, nor too fatty. And although it is found

in nature, it is nonetheless not everywhere. And if you

are in a place where it is not found, you can make it, but not with

fatty earth, for the sand does not want it at all, for it makes

it very porous. But you can give it bond with brick thoroughly

ground on marble, or plaster or calcined

alabaster or something similar, or the burned marrow of

ox horn or burned aspalte throughout. If you grind it quite

finely on porphyry, it s acquires

hold &amp; then you can burn it with aspalte or mix

it with a quarter part of tripoli. Guard against

bread falling into your sand because it makes it very

porous.

Try mixing in soot black.

Ducks

Young domestic ones do not grow for a month

after they are hatched, but remain in this state. But after that they grow quickly, 

especially if they go into the water. One feeds them with boiled

millet grains, crumbling in bread for them

and scattering in well chopped lettuces.

Earth for casting, for founders

It renders itself fatty once beaten and also mixed with

horse dung. Potter’s earth would be

too fatty and would crack &amp; would not hold in the fire, but one needs

to mix it with half as much sand and a quarter

or a fifth of horse dung. And leave

it to dry, then turn it to powder, then sift it to render it fine &amp;

purged of gravel, which would prevent it from casting neatly. The dung

renders the earth more amenable &amp; easier to deal with, but it

is necessary that it be well free of straw &amp; other things.

And when the earth is very fatty, one needs to give it more sand

&amp; more dung. But one does find fatty earths,

in and of themselves mixed with sand. If they are not, do it by artifice.

One always needs to reheat the earths before casting.

Glassworkers’ black

Iron scale taken from bars that have been in the fire for a

long time, &amp; which is thick, is much better

than that common delicate kind that falls under the anvil in the

forge, because it imitates niello. To the said black,

described elsewhere, some add d a little

minium to it.

Sheared ewes

If the shearer sometimes wounds them, he puts

 the very dung of the ewe on top. When they

are fat, they are easier to shear &amp; do not get wounded so easily.

    

If the shearer wants to viscorter them, that is to

say castrate, when they are one or two years old, he

must not have been with his wife for this would make the sheep

die.

Colors and gilding on glass

One ought not to give as strong gum water on glass for

the gold layer as for silver layer as for the

gold layer because a silver leaf is twice as strong as a

gold leaf. Also, silver is harder and therefore does not

scratch as easily. Q And if the gum was not a

little strong for the silver, the latter would not split so

neatly. When you work, the humid the exhalation of your

breath moistens the leaf laid on the glass, &amp;

therefore it would be good, while working, to heat it up a few times.

You need to be very careful to wash that which you want to be blank

&amp; serve as a background for painting with colors, for if it were not

quite clean of the gum’s greasiness &amp; viscosity,

the &amp; of other things, the colors would not be so neat

on it. To advance your works, you can pounce, or, better still,

layer the gum &amp; leaf on a cut paper. In this way, you

will only need to repair very little. If you want to make gold color

there without gold, mix soaked dried saffron with a little

massicot.

Founder

The mold of earth is reheated until, sometimes, it

is as if red, for otherwise the metal would spatter &amp;

would not do anything good. And similarly, the noyau on the

inside should be very reheated, &amp; mixed with charcoal

powder.

Wax for seal and imprint

For the large wax seals, you need to have tepid water

always ready &amp; apre keep your wax in

it. But before, it should have been kneaded between your hands

to render it very uniform, for otherwise the water that would get in

between would prevent it from becoming uniform. Next, you will press it into

whatever you want and put three or four pieces of paper on, &amp;

with a stick you even &amp; round like a

pestle, you will roll it as if you wanted to polish it, and it

will attach itself to the paper, which will help you lift it off

the mold. Thus you will imprint better than if you were to cast it

molten. You can carve the figures &amp; gild them, silver them, &amp;

paint them with colors in varnish, &amp; transfer them onto a

base of glass painted with colors in turpentine &amp;

mastic. And if you want to apply these plates by incrustation, do it

with gum ammoniac  tempered with vinegar, and you will have

good glue.

For casting in plaster

Melt some wax, &amp; with a large brush coat the

relief of which you want to have the hollow form, as if you wanted to paint

it. And a light crust upon which qu will form,

upon which you will cast you plaster, to give it body

and strength. Next, in the hollow form of wax, you will also cast your

plaster in order to have your relief, &amp; it will release very

easily because of the wax. This is done more for large

pieces in high relief than for others.

Pounced design for scratching satin

After you have pounced with flour or ground chalk, in

order that the dots of the pounced design be not erased, follow the

trace with glair beaten with the milk or bark of the

fig tree, which will immediately make it clear up like

water, &amp; without becoming thick, it will keep the trace, which

you will follow again &amp; scratch with d a

piece of glass or a penknife.

Canvas for painting in oil without breaking

In order that your picture in oil does not break &amp; spoil

in the folding of it, make your layer with honey oil, a bit of

oil, &amp; water, &amp; flour.

Painting in oil on taffeta which

In order that the oil does not run, make your first layer

with honey, alum water &amp; starch water.

Sand for casting

The main thing is to grind it well on marble,

&amp; that it be impalpable &amp; mixed with a little calcined

alabaster.

For outlining a portrait

Follow the lines with lake ground with olive

oil, which will not dry.

White varnish on plaster

Give two or three coats of quite white glue for

painting. Next, varnish with varnish of sandarac, spike

lavender oil, and a little mastic. And in the

evening put it into a vessel, all pestled well together,

without fire, which would turn it yellow. Then with a

paintbrush, it is dry immediately. Pour the oil,

which will have taken the substance.

Mericotons and pavis

One should graft them en during Advent of

Christmas provided that it does not freeze too much.

White bronzing on plaster

One needs to give four layers of painters’ distemper glue

on the plaster portrait, always leaving each layer to

dry. Next, with minium from England  ground on marble, or

burnt lead, grind av &amp; temper with a bit of

gum or go glue, &amp; coat lightly. Once

dry, rub lightly with a little cotton and the plaster

portrait will seem to be of lead. Others grind minium with

quicksilver.

Purple

℞ stagno dolce, meza onça, farlo

fondere in un cochiaro.

        

Depoi fonduto, gectarly dentro una ℥ de ☿, mesedar

insieme.

        

Essendo freddo, macinar supra il porfidio. Dapoi piglia

        

una ℥ de sal armoniaco, una ℥ de solfo

del più giallo

        

que se possa troval, macinar tutti duoi. Et poi mesedar

        

molto bene tutti gli matteriali sopradetti. Dapoi metter tutto

        

insieme dentro un a pignatta sublimatorio di

vetro, tenerlo

        

sopra picciol fuoco una hora &amp; una

hora un poco piu forte

        

&amp; una hora bonissimo fuoco, et sarà fatto.

Dapoi, per

        

adoperarla, datte il negro di resina con colla

di pintori da

        

pintar &amp; per doi o tre volte, fin a tanto che sia ben

negro.

        

Dapoi datte un poco di vernice. Essendo secco, datte a secco

con

        

ditto la purpurina dove vorrette. Tanto più ne

darette, sarà

        

piu bello. Dapoi, si volete, datte vernice sopra.

White bronzing

Apply black with glue, as was said, on the medal, then

varnish. Once dry, grate minium from England

on top with a paintbrush or a finger. 

The said grated minium embellishes lead medals.

Varied and transmuted wine

Grate brazilwood very finely, put it to soak one or

two hours in clear water, then take this

tinted water &amp; add to it some clear water &amp; you

will make e wine as claret colored as you like. If you

please, put a drop of lemon or orange juice in it &amp;

it will immediately turn white. It can be drunk without danger.

Pearls

It is said that pulverized talc blown into with a lamp

renders them thus.

Arquebusier

For firing your arquebus precisely, it is necessary that the end

of the breech be &amp; come precisely to the edge of the touch-hole,

because in this manner the powder, without blowing, catches &amp;

burns all at once &amp; has more force &amp; does not push back. On the

contrary, if the breech is made hollow, as they commonly are, the

powder catches sooner in this place, makes it push back, &amp;

blows, which a chambered arquebus clearly

shows, which pushes back more than another. And since the barrel is

thicker at the breech than at the muzzle the sights are also uneven, for

that at the breech is higher than that at the muzzle. And then, the

thickness of the barrel gains about one line over the caliber,

and the sight another. It would therefore be necessary to either

make the barrel all of one thickness or to raise the stock on at

the end &amp; toward the muzzle, &amp; sink it in &amp; lower it

toward the breech. The weight of the

powder must be the third part of the ball.

Hail shot of the arquebus

If you want it to go together, set a

piece of felt or leather or

paper on top, according to the distance, &amp; let

thee piece be made with a cutting-punch precisely

cut at according to the caliber of the arquebus.

The range of an arquebus

The proportion is of the fowling piece is 4

king’s feet long &amp; the ball xviii

deniers, the charge vi

deniers of powder, its range iiiixx

pans &amp; 3 feet lxi &amp; a half, two

inches &amp; a few lines, which is the

Paris aulne. The medium

hackbut, which is the usual one &amp; the

easiest, carries a ball of xv deniers, v

deniers of powder &amp; a range of lx

paces.

Pewterer

They mix viii lb or ten of lead, per

quintal of tin in cities where they are sworn

masters. But elsewhere, they add as much as they can. One

also uses ii lb of looking-glass tin to bind it &amp;

three lb of debris, that is to say the copper shards

that coppersmiths make. This makes the plate more

sonorous and it is not as breakable.

This tin is called common tin.

Arquebus

To keep it from pushing back, it is necessary to clean your arquebus

every eight days, &amp; rub it with oil, &amp; when you

fire, wet some linen cloth in oil &amp; put it in instead

of paper.

Lake

To test it, temper it &amp; apply it to paper, &amp; if one or

two hours later it does not die there, it is fine

and good.

Dyes from flowers

The red poppy, which grows amongst grains,

makes a very beautiful columbine on white leather. The

cornflower makes a very beautiful blue. A plant which

grows in hedges, which has a stem similar to flax, a long &amp;

broad leaf like small bugloss, which has a violet flower

verging on blue &amp; is shaped like the lily flower, makes

a very beautiful turquin, surpassing azure. Another flower, the

columbine, of the shape &amp; size of the

bugloss flower, which has a petal resembling that of the

pansy, also makes a very beautiful turquin. It grows

amongst grains, in light soils.

Horsehair sieves

They are made at Coustance in Normandy with

horse tail hair which they clean with lye because

they sort them with the mouth &amp; separate out short

&amp; broken ones. They do not make the reed longer than the

sieve, &amp; the reed is round. They attach to both edges of

the reed the hair, either black or white, according to

the work they want to make. And the weft is is

done over &amp; under as for making any other fabric. And passing a

small flat stick of ii or three fingers wide

between, next they pass two hairs at each step of the pedal

and weave with three pedals. There are xviic

hairs in the entire sieve. They sell them by the dozen &amp; each dozen

xxx sous. They bring them to Toulouse to

transport them afterward to Spain, and take silk tammy

in exchange for it .

Excellent water against the plague of Monsieur de

Montorsin

Take some theriac, rue &amp;

dittany, &amp; good vinegar, put the whole in a

glass bottle, leave it half-open &amp; well strapped, and

put it in a very long bath for three or 4 days. Then

separate your decoction from the residue, of which in time of

need you will pour some on a flaming red tile &amp; receive

the vapor of it &amp; also fumigate your clothes with it. This is a very

rare &amp; tested secret.

White soporific oil

Take x or 12 mandrake apples, put them in quarters

in olive oil, the whole in a vial

glass bottle which you will place in a bain marie for

two days and your oil will turn white. If you

rub the soles of your feet with the same, you will soon feel

like sleeping.

Stucco

For glueing stone, some do not use

poi resin &amp; black pitch resin

because it is too fatty, but take rosin &amp; sulfur,

as much as of one as the other, &amp; as much of

wax as the two together, and mix it with pestled brick for greater

strength. Others, white chalk or white stone pestled &amp; pulverized

&amp; sieved.

Loading an arquebus with hail shot

One needs to make a wooden pipe as long as the width of 4

or 5 fingers, which should be hollowed precisely according

to the mouth of your barrel, of the form represented in D A.

Then, having cut strong paper, of the as of large printed

books, in the form of D, as wide as you want to make your

cartridge long, wrap the paper

around the baton B &amp; at the end, where the point F will be,

fold all around the said paper, &amp; your cartridge will be

formed. But in order to make the bottom more uniform, put it into

pipe A, then put in the baton B and, through the other

end of the pipe, which is marked G, put the baton C

&amp; beat so as to tamp &amp; press the folded tip of your cartridge,

then take it out, &amp; load it. Put three or 4

pieces of shot or

tears into it. Then, with a

cutting-punch, marked E, which should be of the same caliber as

your arquebus or pistol, punch round pieces on cardboard or

felt or waxed cloth, and put this round piece into your

cartridge, and push it onto the pieces of shot with the

baton B. Next, more pieces of shot, 3 or 4, then a round

piece. And do thus until the cartridge is full, then put it into your

arquebus. If you want your hail shot to scatter sooner, make the round

pieces out of paper. If you want it to reach farther without

scattering, make the piece out of cardboard. If you want even

farther, make the round piece out of waxed cloth, or else of

leather or felt, &amp; a piece of waxed cloth on

the top. And if you make the cartridge itself of waxed cloth or

waxed paper, it will reach one hundred paces &amp; will

make for great piercing, &amp; the hail shot, barely scattering, will

make an opening. But if you make your cartridge with waxed cloth

or a material stronger than paper, you ought not to make so long

the part coming from the square to the point as in D, because it is enough

that it wraps around twice, #. In this manner, the hail

shot barely scatters &amp; makes for great piercing against a door,

cuirass body, and others.

as D H

Loading an arquebus

You ought to have different charges according to the range that you

want to give to your arquebus, all of which should have a screw

on the end that fits in the nut of the ramrod of the

said arquebus. Thus, when you have put the powder in the charge,

which is in the nut, hold the ramrod upright. And

raising your arquebus up, insert the said ramrod until the

charge is at the bottom of the arquebus, then right the arquebus, the

mouth of the barrel up, and remove the little ramrod. Thus your

powder will be entirely in the breech without any of its grain or

dust attaching to the sides of the arquebus, which always has some filth

in the chamber. Thus it will not push back, and you will shoot more

true.

For adjusting a crooked cannon

Take off the breech and place it on an smooth &amp; well-leveled

table and pass through the inside a very smooth string without

knots, on each end of which there should be a plumb

hanging from each side. Then look into the barrel along the

string, and if it does not touch equally all over, note the

place where it does not touch &amp; hit with a hammer on the outside on

that side &amp; in the same place, &amp; thus it will be righted, &amp;

do thus all the way round.

For the teeth, oil of sulfur

Some people whiten them with confections of

aquafortis; however, one says that this corrupts them

afterward &amp; causes a blackness on them. One says that oil of

sulfur is excellent, but one needs to mix it in this way: take as

much clove oil as can be held in a

walnut shell, and as much rose honey,

&amp; seven or eight drops of oil of sulfur, &amp; mix

it well all together. And after having cleaned the teeth with a

small burin, touch them lightly with a end little

cotton dipped in the aforesaid oils and leave it there for a

little while, then spit or rinse your mouth with tepid

water, and reiterate two or three times. Oil of sulfur

penetrates &amp; is corrosive, and the but the

clove oil &amp; the rose honey correct it.

Therefore use it with discretion.

Wheat oil

Applied to hair, it makes it fall out &amp; keeps it from being

born.

Against the falling sickness

Take or four or five fresh crow eggs,

&amp; the over the space of 4 or five

mornings cook one of them, and, having mixed in it a bit

of powdered gentian &amp; one drop of oil of

sulfur, give it to the patient. It is held that the pain will not

return.

Against cold gouts

Oil of guaiac &amp; of sulfur mixed together,

applied.

Go Flowers of trees

Those that are seen with everyes

new ☾ scarcely come to

profit. One ought to leave only two buds on the graft.

Scribe, Oil of sulfur

If the scribe wants to clean his quill promptly

of the thickness of the ink which has dried on it, one only needs to

soak in oil of sulfur. And it will immediately be white &amp;

clean. Urb.

Shoemaker

If he wants to do some tanned work on black leather shoes, he

can dip a writing quill in oil of sulfur and paint with

it what he would like on shoes, boots, and colets. And he will obtain a

reddish color which will not disappear by any effort. Urb.

Erasing a letter

Dip a writing quill in fresh &amp; good oil of sulfur

&amp; thus retrace all the letters with the dipped quill &amp;

they will disappear on parchment. Urb.

Writing without ink

Write with oil of sulfur &amp; heat &amp; the letter will turn as

black as this one. Urb.

Making a letter à jour on paper and other

work

If you write d or trace something on the

paper &amp; heat it quite soon, &amp; immediately it will turn

black; then by rubbing with a sponge, the letter will be cut

because it will be burned. Urb. Or retrace the letter with a

dry quill of.

Making someone’s boots burn

Rub with the aforesaid oil, &amp; as it becomes

warm, they will burn without a flame. Urb.

On stone, black letters

The same oil on letters engraved in

stone &amp; heated turns black &amp; penetrates.

For teeth

Sal ammoniac i ℥, rock salt

1 ℥, alum half an

℥. Make water with the retort, and

as soon as you touch the tooth, the tartar &amp; blackness will go

away. It is true that it has a bad odor, but you can mix it

    with rose honey &amp; a little cinnamon or

clove oil.

Antimony oil

It yellows quite strongly, even silver, if you put it on it

being heated.

Against falling sickness or vertigo

Hung round the neck, wear root of peony

which should be picked at the waning of the moon.

Crucibles

Those from Bayonne, which seem to be made of

grès are better, for they last, without comparison,

longer than others. And because they are not very thick, one wastes less

charcoal melting gold &amp; silver, for they heat

quickly. They do not drink as much silver as the others,

&amp; for this reason, there is hardly any residue to be

found in them. They are less prone to tipping as others that have a

flat foot.

Against diarrhea and dysentery

Against diarrhea, it is very good to use preserve of

symphytum, also called consolida maior. And

if it is against dysentery, you can rub with it the temples,

the hollow of the hands, &amp; the soles of the feet

with wax oil &amp; take one drop or two of it with a

spoonful of broth. The root of consolida

maior, pestled &amp; put between pieces cuts

in a piece of beef, then boiled, rejoins them, as they say.

A drink having a taste of wine

Take tartar from large vessels &amp; soak it in

water &amp; it will have the taste of wine.

Founding

Some, to make it run neatly, put half metal &amp;

half copper. Others take one part of

potin &amp; one part of copper

latten. Others take one part of candlestick

latten &amp; one part of basin latten. And among

basins, the latten of larger ones is brittler than that of

skillets, because for making the curve of the round so small it is

necessary that the substance be softer. For big ones, to which they give a more

ample curve of the round, a brittler substance can be taken. In any event,

the brittlest latten runs better &amp; casts more neatly, but

let it be cast very neat hot. One When one wants

to cast, one casts lead into the substance, which makes it flow

&amp; run &amp; goes up in smoke, &amp; keeps the mold from

corrupting. And if you want to cast fire pieces, mix in more

rosette than latten, in order that it be less breakable. The

crucibles for melting metal should be better than

those for glassmakers, as glass is not as

heavy as metal. And in this instance, one needs to lute the

crucibles with earth and pestled glass.

Crucibles

Those that are made in winter &amp; humid

weather are not good. Those of the founders must be thick

and must be luted.

Casting

Finely calcined pumice stone casts 22 carat

gold without repair, but it needs to be ablaze and red like the

metal. And it withstands several casts.

Founder

The heating

For a furnace for melting a large quantity of

metal

Curing dogs of mange

Give them a pill of precipitate,

that is to say iii or 4, or up to 5 grains, mixed with their

food. Having given it to them for one one

week, give them another seven or eight

days after.

Excellent mustard

Dry bread in an oven, then lard it with

cloves &amp; cinnamon &amp; thus put it

to soak in good wine. Then, pass everything through a

tammy cloth, being well pestled, &amp; incorporate it

with your mustard seed.

Keeping birds and animals

skin them Take a measurement of their body,

which is fleshy &amp; more subject to decay, with some

canvas that you will cut to their size &amp; width.

And having cou filled it with cotton &amp;

sewn it, skin them, birds leaving, however, the head,

the neck, the wings &amp; the feet on the birds, &amp; the

head, the legs &amp; the feet &amp; tail on the animals, because those

dry easily. Then fit that skin on the a

you mold made of canvas. Small ones are dried

in an oven or prepared with sal ammoniac &amp;

.

Extraction of regulus

℞ one lb of antimony, half a lb black

soap, and half a lb of tartar from

Montpellier. Once the whole is pulverized, one needs to

boil in a varnished earthenware pot on a big fire while

stirring the whole often with a pick of wood or

iron, &amp; the said soap will be consumed and burn

off and the rest will stay as if red, and it will be necessary

that it is reduced by a third. Then one needs to cast it on a

tile and it will turn blackish. One will need to melt this four

or five times and pour it on the flat tile and then you will

have the regulus drawn from antimony.

Others pulverize the antimony &amp; mix it with

saltpeter &amp; pulverized tartar, as much of one as of

the other, &amp;, having heated a pot or crucible

red hot, they put a little of it at a time, &amp; se

turn their back for fear of the fumes, and continue thus until

everything is put in, and strengthen the fire until everything is

thoroughly melted &amp; melt it again several times.

Lead, tin

They become brittle having been put back to melt often or for a long

time, and they thicken and burn, in such a way that even when one melts

a saulmon, the tin thickens at the bottom if, while

casting, one does not stir it often. It is best for casting to melt

little lead &amp; the or tin &amp;

stir to renew it at each melt. The antimony renders

them breakable. The looking-glass tin whitens them.

One Pewterers put in on the fine

tin one lb of looking-glass tin per one

quintal of fine tin &amp; two lb &amp; a half

or three lb of red &amp; soft cauldron copper, which

is better than latten. There is fine &amp; soft tin &amp;

brittle tin. The brittle one is cast in grille

by the pewterers to sell it better. O

They come out better &amp; more neatly in stone molds

than in a copper mold, because copper is fatty

&amp; sticks unless one heats the mold well or one casts large

works. Three quarters of lead per one lb of

soft tin, makes a very liquid line &amp; proper for

casting, which has a shine like a mirror. Sandiver lightens them.

And all things that thoroughly lighten metals &amp; remove their

thickness &amp; dense nature &amp; render them like liquid

like water, render them proper for casting, for it is the

thickness that prevents them from running. Soft tin is

more even com than the brittle one, which is

whiter and seems to be burnished like a mirror.

    To alloy well tin &amp; lead, one needs to melt one by

itself, and then mix in the other, small pieces at a time, and throw it

often on the marble or the square tile.

And when you will see it become quite even like &amp; shiny

as if it were burnished, it is good. For sometimes it becomes spotted

due to too much lead &amp; sometimes due to too much tin.

There is some tin which takes more lead than another.

Common tin is the one that is mixed with lead.

Casting of lead

Those who cast those small works that are sold in front of

churches, y melt one for one

lb of tin a half of lead, &amp;

cast in stone, &amp; if they want their work whiter, they put

p half tin and half lead, but

the first mixture is the best, &amp; does not become porous. One needs

to cast it rather hot, for otherwise, it would not flow. Others smoke

their molds with a resin candle to cast neatly. The

antimony makes the substance brittle &amp; breakable. The

looking-glass tin makes the work whiter, but not more runny; as

for tin, it works well to the with pure lead.

Those who make very neat lead casts, use puncheon.

Pewterers cast in a copper mold. One says

that one makes lead take hold on glass with

resin. Some put into the lead a quarter of

tin. Looking-glass tin  renders the work stronger.

Poncet

They cast with solder that pewterers

glassworkers use. 

Lump of iron

Calcined iron oyster shell

Sand for lead casting

Rye straw ashes well boiled then dried &amp; then

well sieved. Bind it with glair of egg. One can cast

copper, latten, and others in it.

Another

Burnt &amp; calcined pumice stone. Burnt &amp; calcined

cuttlefish bones, as much of one as of the other;

&amp; ashes of walnut tree or vine, well

boiled, dried &amp; finely sieved,

bound with glair of egg.

Pewterers

They put into one quintal of fine tin one

lb of looking-glass tin, which renders the tin

thicker. There are two kinds of tin, one of them nearly like

lead, which runs better, the other brittle, which becomes

thicker. They cast in solid &amp; thick tin molds or, to

do it more neatly, in copper molds engraved with a

burin, or in stone, or in earth. Since

latten scraps, mixed in, only render the tin more

breakable &amp; harder &amp; difficult to work with, they cast

in their very hot molds &amp; almost red &amp;

with very hot tin. They fumigate their tin molds with

resin candles.

Brittle dou tin is found mixed into

saulmons, easy to cut, but difficult to put to use &amp; melt

if it is not mixed with the other soft one. And without this,

it would become waste.

Birds

        

Calandra larks &amp; all

birds taken from the nest &amp; which have not had freedom are

better, for these which are taken by net never sing so well. However,

the wild ones give  much pleasure with their

chanting, but they ought be taken before St. Michael,

otherwise they scarcely live. A small impostume occurs on all on the

fork of their tail, occasionally, which some call gaillardise,

which makes them sick &amp; sometimes makes them die, especially

calandra larks. One knows this when they are sad &amp; do not sing.

One must pierce it av, not with a pin, but

very gently by turning with the tip of quite pointy feather.

The calandra lark does not want to be without grey

river sand, &amp; the grey is the best, a little coarse. It rubs itself in it

&amp; purges itself with it.

Grain of lead

        

Take a pierced playing card, pierced with a

pin or needle, folded on all four sides. Hold it with

the end of a small cleft stick and, holding the said

stick by one end the other end,

put your card three or 4 fingers away from

the water that you will have put in a dish or similar

vessel. Then pour your lead, which should not be too

hot, into the card &amp; continually tap on the stick

that holds it. And thus your lead will granulate itself roundly.

And pass it through a coarse sieve to separate the largest grain

from the smallest. The largeish one will reach 25 to 30 paces.

Birds

        

Those that can are taken at St. Michael are

good for keeping, but those that are taken in March die,

because they are starting to fall into love. Ortolans

are fed on oats all summer in order that they are nourished without becoming

fat, to be more appropriate for hunting &amp; catching others.

Then, when one wants to fatten them for selling, one gives them

millet. They sing at night. One needs to

c take them after mid-July until

St. Michael, for after that time when they have their young in

this country, they go away like turtledoves do. Siskins

should also be taken from All Saints’ Day until

Christmas, for after that they go to the mountains to

brood.

            

        

            

            

            

Ortolans are ventriloquists, such that singing without

opening the beak, one would say that they are.

Keeping fruit for the entire year

℞ a glass ampul with an opening capable of

receiving cherries and plums or whatever fruit that

you want. Put in some hot water for the space of two

hours. And when your water is cooled, throw it out &amp;

turn the opening upside down on a quite even &amp;

table, &amp; in a room where there is not a drop of air &amp;

of wind. Then en prepare a stopper of new

wax, wrapped in waxed canvas, and adjust it to the

ampul quite precisely in order that it will be all ready to

stop it when you will have put in the fruit. And when you will have

delicately picked with your hand the fruit without it

being corrupted &amp; on a warm &amp; dry day, return to the

well-closed room, where neither wind nor air may enter,

&amp; put it gently &amp; with dexterity in the bottle. Then

stop the bottle well with the stopper &amp; lute it

&amp; making the lute if it seems good with some quicklime &amp;

oil, &amp; such that no water may enter in. Then put your

bottles in a vat full of water, during the

summer Et lhiver pourceque la cave s in

a cellar, and in the winter put your bottles

into a basket furnished with some weights &amp; lower

it to the bottom of a deep well. For in the winter

the water of the vat would be too cold if the cellar

is not quite warm, for one needs the water to be like river

water.

Molding

If you want to promptly mold something in half relief that

comes to hand, fold some paper in five or six doubles,

&amp; place it on the medal &amp; make sure the

paper is folded on the back of the medal so

that it is well secured. Next, take a stick, broad at one end

&amp; pointed at the other, well softened, and rub well on the

paper, &amp; with the point of the stick retrace

the lines &amp; proceed until you recognize that your imprint is well

done. Then, at your convenience, slightly rub oil with a

paintbrush lemp on the

paper imprint and cast in tallow or

wax or sulfur, &amp; the paper, without

burning, will render your portrait neat, which you will afterward be able to

mold in plaster or tripoli, and then in

lead &amp; other metal.

Polished carton of little thickness &amp; a little

moistened is proper. Then if you want, strengthen it with

paper glued on the back.

Small birds

Ortolans sing at night if they are left

in the serain, but they are better for fattening for

fine tables than for singing. Chaffinches are prone to becoming

blind, &amp; their eyes become swollen at the beginning of

August. Goldfinches like lettuce seeds very

much, &amp; often one catches them in gardens on seeded

lettuces with two lime-twigs. But because such regular

fare would be too expensive for them, they are ordinarily fed with

hemp seed. The passe solitaire is purged

with a spider, which one needs to give to it

once a week in order that no

gaillardisse comes to it. The calandra is purged with dry

mortar, composed of lime &amp; sand to keep it from

gaillardise &amp; fattening too much. Young small

birds are purged with the same dry mortar, by putting some

pieces in their cages. The cuckoo lays in the nest of

ortolans otherwise called verdaule.

This bird is very simple. In the past, I have given leave to two of them,

which after several days returned to their cage. For feeding

young goldfinches, one needs to pestle

almonds with pith a very little amount

of bread pith and lettuce seed or

hemp seed. If it is for linnet, some

rapeseed.

Curried steel and files

The steel that farriers &amp; iron

workers commonly use is not refined like that from

Germany or Biscay, which is reduced in hardness

p in the bath of molten iron, but

only in the iron bars which are transported in flat

ingots from the forges of Foix &amp; elsewhere,

there is a harder &amp; whiter &amp; finer kind than the other, as it

comes from the mine. And the workers choose it

&amp; use it like the other steel. And because that it comes from

common iron, they call it strong iron. But it is not as

excellent as purified steel like that from Germany &amp;

Biscaye, which is sold in small beads. Some curry

steel, giving it a heating, then temper it &amp;

water in a large quantity of water, then forge it.

&amp; fine steel, which is brittle, breaks and crumbles, &amp;

iron allows itself to be stretched. Thus they separate the

finest steel &amp;, which with another heating they

reduce to a mass. The Germans make their files from

strong iron.

One applies steel to tools

dess not on both sides, but underneath the part

where one sharpens &amp; whets them. &amp; in this part, they must be of

very soft iron.

Levantines refine our

steel because their country does not provide them with any. And

they reheat it in a pot with bitumen, &amp;c.

Counterproofing

Make some soap water &amp; with this, rub &amp; moisten the

intaglio piece that you want to counterproof, then lay white

paper on it &amp; rub very vigorously across the top with a

tooth or the bottom of a glass &amp; you will

transfer your printed piece. It is true that it will be in reverse, but

if you oil your paper with spike lavender

&amp;or turpentine oil, it will represent

from the left the right on the other side. Then follow

these lines with a paintbrush or a quill, then heat the

paper &amp; the oil will go away &amp; leave your

paper white. And if you want this not to be known, if by chance,

you borrowed the piece, moisten the paper, and the polishing that

the burnisher has made on the back, which shows what has been

done, will not be known. The soap water will turn the piece

yellow, but well-gummed water, which has the same effect, does

not do this. If you want to, for the same effect, make gummed

water, then mix some soap in it &amp; do as is said.

Cutters of printing plates

To clean the copper plates, or to make worn ones

print better, boil them for four or five good hours

in a good lye quite spent in the wash water. 

Then make your ink with some linseed

oil &amp; not with walnut oil &amp; press with the

rollers. The copper plates are sooner made than

wood blocks, but they are not so appropriate for

printing promptly. The wood ones are laborious but also will

sooner have printed twenty sheets than the other two. To

carve in wood, the secret is first to poach, that is to say to

lay the counterproof or drawn piece onto the wood block

&amp; to make sure that the side with the traced line is stuck to the

wood. Once dry, you then gently rub with a moist

handkerchief the back of the paper which, by rubbing, will

become so delicate that almost only the line will remain, which, next,

one follows in cutting the surface. You could do this with historiated

glass &amp; coat with noir d’escaille, to then scrape

&amp; layer your colors on the uncovered area. To make ink for

copper plates

These rollers are good for promptly printing with cut cartons different kinds of pastes.

One can place the plates among the linen when the

lye is quite pure, or in a pot.

which is different from that of the printers, one needs

to boil walnut oil or, even better, linseed

oil for a long time. &amp; having boiled for a long

time, you will put in garlic &amp; bread

crusts to rid it of grease &amp; leave again to boil thoroughly,

then finally you put in one part of lampblack that you

have previously ground on marble with oil.

And finally you will mix everything as long as &amp; until

you see that the plate prints well. Which And when

you have spread the ink on it, wipe the plates well with

the surface of a piece of white paper. &amp; do this

until the paper looks clean and then print. If you were

to wipe the plates with a linen cloth, it would

remove the ink. Linseed oil thickens while

boiling &amp; becomes like a varnish &amp; is in danger of

catching fire. Therefore, when you boil it, make sure it is in an

open space or in a place where the flame cannot cause

damage. Some burn tartar until it is black &amp; grind it

with non-boiled linseed oil, or walnut

oil which others find to be better. This black is beautiful,

but the one of lamp smoke is blacker. When you want to print

fr, take with your fingertip of

the said black moderately thick, the whole plate having

first been cleaned in lye as said, then, rub it with the surface

of a piece of white paper until the

paper remains white &amp; do not touch it with the

bare hand because but with a piece

of paper applied on top. &amp; having cleaned the

plate perfectly, mi rub again with a

piece of paper, fold the edges &amp; sides. Next, take a

small even table &amp; on this a piece of

felt, then a few sheets of paper &amp;

finally the one you want to print on, which should be moistened between

two wet napkins. And on this sheet put your

plate then another piece of paper, &amp;

finally another felt. Then pass between the

rollers. And you can print a dozen pieces consecutively by

always charging the plate with ink &amp; cleaning it as you

have done. But if you desist from printing, the rest of the ink will dry

in the grooves of the plate. Thus you will have to boil it

in lye or urine, as already said, to clean it. The

rollers must not be too loose.

The work done in Algiers

Take a colt of three or 4 years &amp; feed it on

rye barley &amp; straw

pig cut in the manner one feeds horses in

Spain, and water it with good fountain or river

water. I do not know if it would be good to water it

occasionally with water of sulfurous baths, &amp; to sometimes

give it fenugreek or other hot foods, for the intention

of the worker is to it to use the heat of its

dung, &amp; the climate here is cooler than that of

Algiers. Keep it in a warm &amp; close place &amp;

so that none of its dung &amp; urine should be lost, of

which you will make a heap or two in order that while one cools, the

other will be at the appropriate heat to continue. Also take a large

glass mattras, as thick as you can, &amp; one

finger thick if it can be done, &amp; of the

capacity of one pitcher or earthen

jug. Around the feast of St. John, put into

it a dozen &amp; a half chicken eggs, that is to say, the

yolk without the glair &amp; the germ (see). Others

say lx yolks. And it will be with this dozen &amp; a

half egg yolks put in half an ounce (others say for lx

eggs half a lb) of female silkworm

seeds. And after having luted the

mattras well (I do not know if it is at all necessary for the

generation that there be air), put it &amp; bury it in the heat of the dung up to

the neck, and leave it there until several f

worms are engendered. And then remove the mattras

&amp; do not bury it in the dung any longer, but only keep it

placed on the hot layer of the dung

until all the worms will have eaten &amp; consumed one

d another, bustling &amp; stirring, and only one

remains. When this is the case you need to feed it at regular

intervals, day &amp; night, with the aid of two men, who by

intervals will take care of it, and you will feed it with an egg

yolk covered with a gold leaf, or with a liquid egg

yolk with the gold leaf incorporated; &amp; take good care

that it does not want for such food (some say one egg yolk per

hour, others three, but the thing itself will demonstrate the

practice). Nourished in this way it will achieve its growth in two

months or seven weeks &amp; will become like a

snake, one empan &amp; 4

fingers long, &amp; one lb in weight, and as

its wings begin to grow, one will need to put it to death by making

a ring of charcoal fire around the bottle one

empan distant from it, and then stopper &amp;

lute the bottle well in order that it does not

exhale.

Or to be safer, retire from there until the fire has died down &amp;

all is cooled, Ap for its exhalation would be

dangerous. And for the occasion when you

feed it with pincers,

b wash your mouth with good vinegar

&amp; take some preservative &amp; plug yourself up well. Once it is

dead, put it in a linen cloth or a canvas of silk &amp;

fold it &amp; hang it from the ceiling, where the air

or &amp; sun dry it. Once it is quite dry,

pulverize it in a mortar. And keep this powder carefully,

because one ℥ of this thrown on iii lb of molten

♁ reduces it to finer ☉ than the other one. But it does not

have as much  weight. For this work you also

need to choose the oldest ♁ that you can, which has often been

melted &amp; finely hammered into sheets or other works, &amp; purify it

before by melting &amp; throwing it into honey &amp;

vinegar. The term of the work is nine months from

the feast of St. John  until the 25th of April.

Linseed

Whoever wants to have it beautiful &amp; p very

delicate needs to pick it before the fd

seed is perfectly ripe. For if one waits for the seed to be

perfectly ripe, the foot is so dried by the sun that it is brittle &amp;

breakable. It is true that in this way the seed is reduced by a

third.

Colors

If you want to keep them beautiful in gum and such that they

do not lose any of their true color, put white wine, the

whitest and clearest you can, in a bottle with a little

tragacanth gum. And having stoppered the

bottle, scramble &amp; shake it very strongly together, &amp;

let it rest until the tragacanth is dissolved. Also put in a

little fine-grained white salt to brighten the whole.

Some mix clear water with white wine, and with this

mixture they temper the colors without grinding. And these show very

beautifully in illumination work.

Soldering a vise

It is good that the jaws of the vise should be high to make

a long piece in it, and that the jaws join well to clamp a delicate

object. To solder the nut, after you have forged the

bolt, you will make will forge a long iron

strip quar of such thickness that it can fit

into the notch of the bolt when red hot, &amp; you will bend it

po all around, striking it with a hammer.

Once it is well jo wrapped around, you will insert

it the bolt o around which

is it is wrapped.

Copper

If, in the fire &amp; melt, it touches the iron, this

iron will be so brittle afterward that it cannot be

forged.

Casting of lead

One mixes it, according to some, half tin &amp;

half lead, and to l'esch heat it,

one mixes in a little sublimate. It casts well in small works in

a cuttlefish bone, provided it is good.

Molding with paper

Boil over hot ashes some cotton in

aquafortis mixed with sal ammoniac, like

aqua regia, and the cotton will become very fine,

like powder. Temper it next it with gummed water &amp; you will mold

very delicately.

Almond trees, apricots

They come in quite straight if one grafts them. And all trees with

pitted fruit, like pavis,

mericotons, alberges,

vie apricots &amp;c, come in best 

shield grafted on an almond tree.

Casting of lead and copper

Lead &amp; tin come out well in white chalk but

the softer it is the better. The one from Champaigne fetches

the price that is set in Lyon. Burnt &amp; calcined

horse bones mold very neatly.

I believe that the marrow from the horns of oxen or

sheep, that is to say, the spongy bone from the

inside, molds very neatly and is better than bone.

Note that any brittle metal comes out better than the fatty. Also,

lean sand receives &amp; drinks it better than the

dense one.

Silkworms

They are produced from seed, that is to say eggs, that which is sold

by the ounce, which is commonly sold in Languedoc iii

lb v s. The one from Spain that

merchants bring there is considered the best because the

worms which come from there are not so subject to illnesses

&amp; make more silk. In Spain, from one ounce of

silk seed, worms are produced from it which

commonly yield ord xv lb of silk.

But the ounce from one ounce of seed

produced in France, only x or xii come out of it. Three

ounces of seed are for producing such a quantity of

worms, that with them you will be able to furnish a room

accomodated with three or 4 levels of large shelves. Willingly

they begin to molt around Holy Week. And to do

this, one puts them in a fir box, like those where one

puts sweetmeats, warmly among feather cushions. And at the

beginning, they molt like f little

black ants, &amp; as soon as there are two or three molted,

one needs to give them white mulberry leaves, and then

arrange them on the shelves. And three times per

day, one needs to exchange fresh leaves. And if

during the day there is some thunder or rainy

weather, cloud-covered &amp; cool, one needs to keep in the

room three or 4 chafing dishes &amp; with

glowing charcoal, &amp; put in incense until all the

room would be filled with smoke. And when the

weather is warm &amp; serain, the silk abounds

more &amp; is all the better for it. Some worms make it whiter,

others more yellowish. And even if it may be white, it yellows when one

draws it with hot water despuys.

The worms, from their birth until u the their

time when they make their cocoons &amp; their prisons, sleep &amp;

rest 4 times, &amp; each time remain 4 or five days

resting without eating, as if they were dying to be reborn again,

for each time they change skin &amp; begin by molting from the head then

consequently, on different days, the s

rest of the body, &amp; from white turn grayish, &amp; from grayish to

white en fin. And if one of them has some illness

who does not have the strength to molt, one needs to help it &amp;

be careful not to break it, for at that time rendering a yellow liquor, it is

no longer worth anything. And further they scarcely profit after one has

handled it with the hand. Around Pentecost,

they begin to want to climb on the dry branches of heath or

heather that one prepares for them en &amp;

attaches

See Hieronymus

Vida Albensis episcopus,

de b Cremonensis,

scripsit carmine

de bombicum natura.

How one moves them

on some of the high shelves, &amp; at that time, one knows

when they want to climb up when, on the leaf, they

hau lengthen &amp; raise the head &amp; a part of

the body. At that time one carries them to the heath branches

where they stop &amp; begin to spin their prison, which one calls

cocoon, commonly the size of a pigeon egg, although

one finds much larger ones because it sometimes happens that two or

three &amp; up to xi worms are put in a cocoon, which is hairy

&amp; downy all around &amp;, the hair of which is

ferret-silk or floret; &amp; from the

cocoon, which is a white, solid, continuous &amp; firm skin, silk

is made. The cocoon is so hard that one only cuts it with difficulty

with a fingernail. And nevertheless, to leave its

prison, elle the worm gnaws it at one end,

&amp; after having stayed inside living on its own sap

il for three weeks, it comes

out, diminished by half. For when it begins to spin, it is

as long as a ring finger &amp; has eight feet, &amp;

coming out it is shorter by half &amp; only has 4 feet. On the

other hand, it has become a butterfly &amp; has wings, without, however,

flying. And there are male &amp; female. As soon as they come

out of the cocoon, the male charges the female &amp; one puts them on a

white linen, where they make their eggs, which the female would not

make well &amp; profitably if the male was not given to her. And when the

male has detached himself from a female, one needs to throw it out, for it

would not be good to give it to another. They have completed spinning

&amp; making their eggs in three weeks &amp;

around St. John’s Day. And at that time one keeps

their eggs &amp; seed until Holy Week, as

on is said. Some spin among the leaves &amp; make

their cocoon there without climbing high.

The silk of the cocoons where there are

On dry preserves

To dry preserves take a which are not liquid, take an

open tub pierced on both sides with a small, square window,

&amp; pass sticks through these on one side and the other,

&amp; place on these a sieve made of strings in the form of a

net. And on this, you will properly arrange the vessels with your

preserves. And having put at the bottom of the tub a

chafing-dish or two, cover the tub with a

bedsheet folded double.

For making a horse follow

+One needs to give it sweet bread &amp; it

will know the one who will do him such good.

And for maintaining it in a good disposition for walking along,

put it, make it take a good gait from the start of the way

&amp; continue it.

Dogs

For keeping them from biting, it is good to have little resin

balls prepared like those of shoemakers &amp; to throw to

them as they yap at you, &amp; they will bite on the balls so

much that their teeth will be stuck together &amp; they will not be able

to hurt you.

For disguising a horse

Cut its ears &amp; tail, &amp; with lit hay, singe

the hair on its head &amp; elsewhere.

Boots of hay

For lack of boots, you can make rope of hay &amp; wrap your

legs in it, &amp; the rain will never pass

through.

For firing a schioppo senza rumore

Warm the pipe well &amp; plug the touch-hole below, &amp; take a piece of porkfat, the freshest

that you can, as long as the joint of the little

finger &amp; of the caliber, &amp; put it in the pipe &amp;

move it up and down until it is completely melted. Next, load the pipe

at the top with a socket that is

held on the ramrod, as you know, &amp; it will only make a

little whistle.

For tempering a ball that will pierce and will make healing

difficult

Mix fat &amp; strong vinegar &amp; throw your ball

very hot into this mixture.

Against wounds

Cut a chicken or a dog to test &amp; in the wound

put sap &amp; pestled herb which is called

semperviva, that is the small one

which has leaves like small grains, which some call

vermicularis. And one holds for certain that it

will not die.

Onenev elbirro hcihw sllik fi

    eno spets no a draob ro a ueirse purrits

Take in the month of June &amp; July, a number

of the largest snails you can, with their shell, put them in a

glass bottle with a sufficient quantity of very hard

&amp; thoroughly boiled egg yolks with good vinegar.

Stopper the whole well &amp; put it under horsedung for

the space of fifteen days. The snails will

first live on the egg yolks, then with the heat they will come

out of their shells &amp; eat &amp; live on those. Finally, a white

ointment is made with it, which, without cutting open the bottle

you put, which above all for your safety you

b will always keep well stoppered, you will put

in the very strong sun &amp; in the serain for the

space

of fifteen days. Next you will

break it from quite far away &amp; with a long stick without

looking at it &amp; having plugged yourself up well, you will put some of it where you

want, or rub some of it on a stake in a running river or a tree or

a plant that is on the bank.

Another for waters

Daot ni a top with

quicklime, which will consume all this powder afterward, &amp;c.

Damascus steel

Distil earthworms separately &amp;

horseradish leaf separately, &amp; mix these two

waters, as much of one as of the other, &amp; temper in

this.

For knowing the course one takes on the open sea

Soak a ferlin in oil, then attach it to the

stern of the ship such that it dips in the water,

&amp; it will make a trail that will show for ten leagues

because the water is parted wherever the oil

has passed.

For casting

Chalk most recently taken from the quarry is good

for lead. One ought neither to wet nor grind it, but render it subtle by

pestling or scraping &amp; passing through a sieve. Thus for pumice,

which one ought not to grind with water, nor corrupt its nature. 

Lead should be but little mixed with tin,

only for giving it strength, and two parts

of tin for lead for of one of

tin or more.

Excellent tempering bath for cuirass bodies

Take river water, as clear &amp; running as

possible, &amp; heat it to a little more than tepid. Then take a bunch

of weld, &amp; take the grain of it &amp; put it into

the said water &amp; boil it thoroughly, stirring it with a stick, then pour it into a

muid or other vessel, then throw into it two

pecks of salt. 

Next, take a big cauldron of the said

river water &amp; heat it to a litte more than

tepid. &amp; take three or four double handfuls of

fatty red earth, soak it &amp; throw it into the cauldron

with the said water. Take as much pigeon dung

as the said earth, &amp; as much horse

dung, &amp; as much iron filings, &amp; mix the

whole separately, &amp; throw it into the cauldron &amp; leave

it for two or three days. Then throw it afterward

into the said muid and stir the whole thoroughly together. And

the older this temper is, the better it will be.

Varnish for distemper

You can make marble with distemper of lake or

rose of Ghent &amp; chalk. Once dry, glaze with

lake tempered in wine, for the glue makes it die &amp;

blacken. And all will appear red, but the varnish you will

put here, which will penetrate, will make appear dark &amp; light

that which ought to be thus. The varnish is made thus, mix with clear

Venice turpentine some spike lavender oil

&amp; until all is clear &amp; liquid enough, &amp; it is done

without fire. This one es is for things in

distemper, and the turpentine varnish that you know, for

panels. Pure spike lavender oil varnish is not good for

panels, for spike lavender oil is too penetrating &amp;

makes colors sparkle, unless it was made long ago.

Painter

The lake &amp; florey rosette of

Ghent &amp; others lose their color &amp; die in the

air.

All marble on which a knife can prick is

worth nothing for grinding fine colors.

Chalk has no body in oil. Ceruse is

appropriate. But lead white more excellent. Ceruse is the

whitest, when ground first in water, the lead white

grayish. But the white it takes on its perfect whiteness in

oil.

When you grind your colors, first clean your workshop

well, for when walking, if you stir up dust, this will damage your

colors, which will never be beautiful if they are not very

be clean.

Florey must not be mixed with azur d’esmail

or another, for it makes it green.

For palettes to paint, ivory is excellent, knots

of the fir tree, the pear tree, &amp; if it

is a walnut tree, make sure the grain of the wood

runs lengthwise.

L One always needs to apply imprimatura

don wood to paint there in oil in

order to fill the holes &amp; unevenness, and make imprimatura with some stil de

grain yellow &amp; ceruse tempered in oil, then soften

with a feather, which flattens better than a

paintbrush. Or when the imprimatura is dry, scrape strongly

with a knife.

To use azur d’esmail in oil, one needs to

choose the most delicate. And to render it subtle, one ought not to grind it,

for this makes it whiten. But one needs to wash it, &amp; the coarsest

going to the bottom, choose the one that is above in the

water or, by inclination, pour out the cloudy water, then

gather the azure.

    The one who makes a profession of working in

oil will hardly work well in distemper if he has not

been trained well from adolescence. For the way of working is different,

because when washing the paintbrush for distemper,

one always leaves it moist. And on the contrary, when one cleans the

paintbrush in oil to soften, one wipes the

paintbrush well. Otherwise, the work would run &amp;

would soon be all disfigured.

The Italians soften by hatching with a large flattened

paintbrush which makes serrations.

And they do not lay their shadow all at once like the Flemish,

but make them hatching lightest toward the light then a little darker

next &amp; finally a little blacker to better make project &amp; come

out.

In distemper do not mix your different colors together

But for this makes them die, but use each separately. And in

order that they do not dry &amp; that you have time to soften, moisten

the back of the canvas.

Lake takes long to dry in oil and for that reason one must

grind some glass with it. But one needs to choose cristallin

because it is cleaner. And because it would be too difficult to grind by

itself, one must redden it on the fire, then when entirely red throw it

into cold water, &amp; it will crumble &amp; pulverize

easily for grinding it afterward. Being well ground it with a lot of

water, it resembles ground lead white, but for all this it has

no body. I think it would be good for casting.

Lead white is made with plate lead, beaten thin &amp; put

under the dung heap.

White varnish of turpentine or of spike lavender

oil and turpentine is colored with pulverized

terra emerita, making it boil together. It gives a gold

color on silver and more beautiful if it is burnished. It is dry

in a quarter of an hour. Aloe would make brighter

color still, but it takes long to dry &amp; the other is dry in a quarter

of an hour, in winter as well as

summer.

Good lake moistened with saliva is promptly rendered dark.

That from Florence is too gummed.

If you make a layer of printers’ ink on velvet

and there apply gold leaf and then stretch the velvet, it

will appear grainy as if there were gold powder disseminated on

it.

Vermilion ground by itself is wan and pale, but ground after

lake, it is more beautiful.

For ridding marbles of grease, one grinds

common ashes on it, which is good afterward to make the first

imprimatura of a panel that is prepared in oil in order to seal

the cracks &amp; chinks of the wood. It has more body than

chalk &amp; it has chalk a certain fattiness.

One mixes it with the said chalk or ra

with the colors collected from the vessel where one cleans the

paintbrush. It is desiccative and spares the color.

On Once this first imprimatura is made on the wood, one

scrapes with a knife to even it. Next, one makes there a second imprimatura

of ceruse or of the meanest colors mixed together. In

a painting in oil on canvas, one applies only

one imprimatura, and the same ashes can be used there. Also, after one

has ground a color, one grinds some pith of coarse bread on it to

rid the marble of grease.

Sheath maker

Sheath makers use small, very delicate skins of

lambs and young goats, almost like

parchment and keep them constantly re-moistened in humid

places. When they want to imprint some history, they layer them in

the hollows of their figure, then put over the top fine fatty

earth with which cloths are rid of grease, having pressed &amp; beaten

it well &amp; rendered it moderately humid and soft. Then they put on

the earth a small even board and put the whole in a

press and let it dry there. After the

earth, only the leather remains neatly imprinted  of

the size of a pea. And then you give the

leather two or three layers of copperas black and

iron scale, one after the other, as even as the

tanners do. And this dye, being astringent, makes the

leather shrink &amp; strengthens it and makes it imprint better.

Once dry, one glues canvas on the back with strong glue. 

In this manner one can promptly imitate big statues &amp;

very subtle medals and paint &amp;

decorate them &amp; are light and portable

&amp; last a long time. That which is imprinted on a relief

is done differently and can be retraced with a hot

iron.

Painter

Good crayons are not made with good

glue but with women’s milk.

Images made of carton, once dry, have to be soaked

in thoroughly thinned and clear melted resin. This strengthens

it, otherwise they turn limp in wet weather.

Venice masks are made with the

hollow &amp; the male face of

copper.

The Flemish do not use any whites for flesh colors in

oil other than lead white because the ceruse turns

yellow.

4 or 5 year-old walnut oil which is clear

is the best color, it keeps off dust. The kind which has recently been

drawn with the press in the manner of almond oil is

white, especially if the walnuts’ skin is removed.

One needs to make at least three layers of flesh color to accomplish

faces in oil. And at the beginning, one puts the black and umber

where it is appropriate. Next, the heightening with lead

white must not be put on the black. Flesh colors, and  where the

ceruse enters will yellow in five or six months, but

lead white does not change.

Florence lake is better than that from

Flanders for in Florence the best dyes are made. To

make a beautiful flesh color, the reddest &amp; liveliest lake is

the best, for the kind that contains purple &amp;

violet, by admixture of too much alum, makes flesh color like

that of one who is very cold. That is why ladies, wanting to color their

cheeks, grind Florence lake very finely, then

fill a little cotton with it, which they next

wrap in a little fabric of Cambray which is

clear. And thus they pounce the lake on their cheeks

&amp; then, with another clean cotton, they

soften it.

Cristallin having been ground with water

appears to be have body, but with oil it does not have

any. It is ground with lake &amp; with asphaltum, which

would not dry for a very long time without this.

Spike lavender oil is commonly put with lead

white, d not entirely pure but mixed with a

little walnut oil. The said spike lavender

oil would not be good for lake &amp; colors that do not have

body for it would make them glitter, but with those that have

body &amp; are somewhat fatty, it is quite appropriate.

Verdigris and orpiment must first be ground with

urine before thinning them with oil. Thus they are

beautiful &amp; do not die.

Blacks

Black of charcoal from the mines, of ordinary

charcoal, of burnt ivory, of peach pits, of

lamp smoke, of burnt bones of the feet of

oxen.

Shadows

When you are making a painting with several persons, just as the

flesh colors have to be different, so do the shadows.

In fresco

Azure is not good here, but wan, &amp; one needs to work

with long paintbrushes. Fresco is not used

    cont on wood.

Azure

Turpentine oil renders it very beautiful. Test palma

christi seed oil.

Walnut oil in Flanders costs at least a hundred

sous a pint. The azure requires a little

fatty oil because it has no body.

Azur d’esmail hates more than any other to be ground,

especially with water, for it dies &amp; loses all its color.

However, because it cannot be worked if it is coarse, grind not with

water but with oil &amp; grind it thickly, and in this

way it will not die as much.

Always choose the most delicate one.

Paintbrushes

When the color has dried inside, &amp; you want to clean them, soak

them in spike lavender oil and they immediately will

turn soft again as before, then you will finish to clean them in

walnut oil. Walnut oil is not as

not as appropriate to soften them as that of spike

lavender, which is clear like water &amp; penetrates

&amp; does not have body like walnut oil. The handle

of paintbrushes is made by those who work with

care from porcupine quills,

by others from wood of arrows from Turkey

with whom with which they also make small rods to rest

their hand when they are painting.

To work well on a small scale very thin paintbrushes which

have a firm point areon needed. And because a 

squirrel’s tail hair is soft,

the most careful take the bristles of the oldest rats,

especially of dormice if they can find them, &amp; put two or

three of them in the middle of the paintbrush. These make

a straight line like a quill &amp; all the other

hairs of the paintbrush stick to them as to the

point. The bristles of beech martens &amp; weasels

&amp; small animals that make musk are even better, for a

single hair in a paintbrush suffices.

Lake &amp; lead white &amp; ceruse are easy to

work in oil, but every kind of azure is difficult. And to

make beautiful azure, one needs to layer it not with large

strokes of the paintbrush but with small strokes of the

point. Not only ash &amp;

    azur d’Acre but mainly azur d’esmail

which one needs to choose to be very delicate, for it

otherwise you will not v be able to work with it

except with much work, and even then you need to allay it with

turpentine to give it body, and mix it with a little lead

white. Any azure wants neither to be ground nor washed for it

loses color &amp; becomes pale. But putting it powdered on your

palette, you will thin it little by little either with

walnut oil or turpentine oil,

dipping a knife point in the oil, then

tempering it little by little on the said

palette.

Shadows

The first shadows which are closer to light need to be clear &amp;

thoroughly softened &amp; then the last ones very dark to give relief

well. The Italians commonly make three shadows, the first one,

of light, very clear, the second one darker &amp; the third ones quite

strong, then blend these three shadows together by hatching them from

the darkest to the clearest.

The varnish is more beautiful on the panel when the color has

imbibed well.

Azure

Azure is more beautiful when imbibed on the panel

without with walnut oil with which it has

been first thinned, without putting in spike lavender

oil. And if you want to know if it is dry, breathe on it and it will

not shine, thus appearing to be well-imbibed. If not, it will shine.

Azur d’esmail imbibed in oil tempered

in oil, leaves it &amp; returns to its primary nature if you mix it

in water.

Colors for working in miniature want to be thoroughly ground, &amp;

work them with a point of a paintbrush if you want your

work to be well-softened.

Black Painting of armor

Charcoal black mixed with a little lead white is very

appropriate to make armor, mixing in a little of 

azure if you wish. Charcoal black by itself is

as if bluish.

Painting of crêpe

First one needs to make the background greyish with charcoal

black mixed with lead white &amp; a little azure.

Then, resu after it is dry, heighten with strokes

&amp; lines in lead white.

Folds in clothing

In this, one needs to take care that none are made false, but that

only that which the natural can do is imitated. A thick cloth

hardly makes any folds, taffetas &amp; silk cloth make

more, &amp; crêpe more still. Make Heed which ones

should go lengthwise &amp; others across.

Desiccative

Lead white &amp; massicot are the most desiccative,

nevertheless they need a good two days. If you want

to prove whether an oil is desiccative, temper lead white

with it, &amp; if it produces a crust in a

day soon it means that it will dessicate.

Double layers

Azures, flesh colors, &amp; reds are layered twice. The others

not.

Mending the cracks in a panel

If a painted panel breaks you can glue it well on the

reverse, but to fill in the cracks well in order to paint on it &amp;

repair it, it ought not to be with glue, which rots in damp

weather &amp; would swell when touched with the oil of the

painting. But take white wax, which is harder than the other.

The oil mixed in among the wax prevents it from

melting in the sun. The wax ought not to be hard, but

soft as if recently cooled. Apply it on cracks &amp; crevices with the

tip of a knife, then scrape;

and to prevent it from breaking, mix in little oil &amp;

melt them together &amp; fill the cracks &amp; make them even and paint

on them. And the oil mixed with wax will

q better receive color, which is also

tempered with oil.

First whitening of a panel

One layers two or three times with chalk tempered with

distemper glue on the panel, not with a

paintbrush but with a brush in such a

way as if you wanted to pounce, &amp; leave to dry. And reiterate up to

two or three times, then even out the last ground well with a

knife, then give a coat of glue on top, upon

which you will next be able to make your imprimatura and then paint. But

make sure that your first white is not too thick for it would break

easily. Flemish painters have such panels

made by the dozen.

Neat work

When you are working, make sure not to stir up dust, &amp; when you

leave your work, cover it in order that the said dust will not fall upon it.

Also layer your colors as thinly as you can, for if they are thick you

will be not be able to soften them thoroughly.

Also do not layer color on color if they are not similar, such as white

on black, but rather flesh color on flesh color, &amp; thus with the

others. And leave blank the space for shadow or a different color.

Ains In this way, layering each manner of color

on the imprimatura itself, they will not die &amp; you will work

neatly.

Oil

Walnut oil extracted like peeled

almonds is very white. The one of palma

christi. And when the oil has a little body, the

colors soften in it. For if the oil is too clear, the colors run &amp;

do not have bond, even those that hardly have any body. Fatty

oil that is not easily imbibed is appropriate for varnish.

The oil is desiccative enough when it dries out as quickly as

common varnish. Oils do not dry as quickly in cold

countries as in hot countries. Oil exposed to the sun

is clarified well. But it fattens, if you put in ceruse or

lead filings or lead white or calcined pulverized

pglass. To avoid this, put the vial in

clear water.

Colors in oil, once dry, sometimes do not easily receive the

second colors; to prevent this, breathe on them &amp; the color will

take there.

Varnish dry in an hour

Take white turpentine oil &amp;

turpentine &amp; mastic, pulverized &amp; passed delicately

through a sieve, &amp; boil together, stirring

continuously with a stick until it is dry. And put in two

liards' worth of good eau-de-vie. And if you extract

the tear of mastic, it will be whiter &amp; clearer. There is no

need to put in turpentine, but only its white turpentine

oil &amp; mastic pulverized at your discretion, until it has

enough body. +

+

which one knows when, being placed on a knife in the

wind, it does not run. This one is excellent for panels and is dry

within an hour and does not stick like the

turpentine one.

Cleaning panels

Some clean them with soapy water, others with urine,

others with white wine, for dust spoils the colors.

Spike lavender oil

One ought not to put any into colors for it is so brisk and

penetrating that it makes the colors flake, which next come off. And for

this reason, painters use it to clean their oil

paintbrush when they have become hard, for it renders them

soft &amp; clean immediately, penetrating the dry color which encrusts

them. Also, painters, sometimes envious of the work

undertaken by another, in the evening secretly pour a few

drops of spike lavender on the oil on the top

edge of the panel such that, running down, it makes a stain that

penetrates as far as the wood &amp; makes the colors come off such

that, to make the work even &amp; of an equal composition, they are

forced to do everything again and thus lose their work.

Wood color

One gives a layer of bistre, then a coat of

varnish.

and even it well, then and once quite dry, they draw their

portrait &amp; layer their natural flesh color, leaving the space for

shadow, like the side of the forehead &amp; the cheek, &amp; the area

around the eyes blank &amp; dry until they have filled in the rest. Next

they put their shadows separately, which they do not make so dark, but rather

that which the natural can make. In sum, they do not put shadow on flesh

color nor flesh color on shadow, but white on white &amp; black on black

Thus &amp; each on their own. In this way their work is neat

&amp; the colors do not die.

Work of the Flemish

They do all their works in oil with the tip of the

paintbrushes, in f the fashion of good

illuminators, and grind their colors very finely, protect

against dust, and often clean from their paintbrush the

bits of hair which they sometimes leave there, for if these

should remain on the work it this, it would prevent neat

working, which they are very careful about. In this way their work

appears very soft, especially in small work, in which one needs to apply

more diligence because one looks at them more closely. They

usually finish the forehead, then the eyes, next the nose,

finally the mouth and the rest. But they do not proceed like some others

who fo layer two or three different flesh colors, one

yellowish &amp; the other darker, because the colors always mix &amp;

finally die. They simply  make their imprimatura

properly,

Flesh colors

You need to make two kinds of it, one more red to make the main

layer, the other more pale for the highlights, as around the eyes. And

then on this last flesh color, you will lightly touch the principal lights

with a little lead white. But avoid putting too much of it for

this will make it look like a face of death. The beautiful

Florence lake makes a beautiful re vivid flesh color

approaching  the tint of rose

alexandrine &amp; incarnadine.

Certain colors do not want to be ground, like minium and

massicot. The ashes do not want to be ground at all.

Rounding

If you want to model relief well, arr soften round

things by rounding them with the point of the paintbrush

&amp; the rest with the flat part if it is flat, &amp; thus for the

others according to their nature, &amp; lightly with the point of

    the dry &amp; flattened paintbrush &amp; with

patience.

Lead white

Without this, you cannot work on a small scale, for which one needs

to soften with great care. But you cannot do it with ceruse

because it does not have enough body.

Lights

Your paintbrush shows it to you by casting a shadow

which must always follow the back of your hand, not in a

straight line like this,

    

for the light would be too crude &amp; too harsh, but obliquely &amp; as

if at an incline, thus:

    

It is necessary that the panel not be facing the

light head-on, but half turned

against it. And above all look for soft light, for it makes soft both

the shadow &amp; the work, as a harsh light a harsh

work.

Water to give light for the painter

Distill some vine water &amp; put

it into a big bottle. And behind this, put your

candle, &amp; it will not hinder your vision.

Frames of the Germans 

Germans who work in miniature make frames not of

glass, but of canvas anointed with clear turpentine

varnish, namely half turpentine oil &amp; almost

half turpentine, because this light, which is not as bright

as from glass, makes features appear larger to them. And when they want

to make something subtle like veins de &amp; similar

things, they use paintbrushes composed of two or three

rat whiskers.

Azur d’esmail in oil

One needs to choose the most beautiful delicate that

will be possible, for if it is coarse one cannot work with it in

oil. And if you do not find any that is subtle enough, you can

grind it well, not with water but with oil, &amp; grind it

thickly. Next lay it on your palette &amp; mix in a little

turpentine, but hardly any, to give it bond, and make it so that it is

thick like butter or mortar, &amp; then, with a fairly

large paintbrush, work it by always moving the

paintbrush back and forth. Then, to soften it, hatch

across it in a tooth-like jagging with the the tip of the

paintbrush. The highlights will be made with

d the same thinned with ceruse,

which, giving it bond, makes it easier to work. I have seen it used

thus. It must be very thick, &amp; almost such that you are at pains to

spread it with the paintbrush. And it is all the better

if you lay down your panel. All these difficulties do not arise when it

is very subtle &amp; thin without being ground, and does not run.

Azure wants to be layered neatly, which is why

quan it always dies somewhat when, to mend an old panel,

one layers it on old, already tarnished azure. In such

matters, it is better to scrape off the old layer &amp; apply imprimatura again,

then put down the azure. It is almost thus for other colors.

Also, azure ground with oil always remains shiny, which is

not a good sign for azure, for this makes it die.

Grinding colors

A slab of marble &amp; p glass a

glass thumb thick is more appropriate

than anything else for grinding colors neatly, especially for

lake &amp; for whites.

Perspectives

Perspectives in oil take a long time because of

several lines that need to be done with a ruler, and for this

reason one usually does them in distemper. One takes the points

at one’s discretion. The main thing in this lies in having the knowledge

of the point. One commonly makes two or three of them, sometimes

five.

Ocher

It is put for faces, hair, skulls, and rocks.

Distant people and animals

One first does them roughly in gray or in purple, which is made of

azure ash &amp; lake. Once dry, one

heightens &amp; finishes with flesh color &amp; other colors &amp; with

white. And it looks better &amp; is sooner done than with white &amp; with

black. Armies are painted thus.

Drawing

After you have applied imprimatura to your panel &amp; scraped with a knife

to render it quite even, you will start drawing with the longest piece

of charcoal you can find, for with a short one you would

not see your line so well &amp; would do it roughly. Let the tip of

the charcoal be thin, &amp; in order not to render it

dull &amp; blunt soon, drag the tip flat, thus you will constantly

sharpen it. Also, hold your charcoal as far at the end

as you can, &amp; do it &amp; accustom yourself

af to make a light line. For if you accustom yourself

to drawing delicately with charcoal, you will do

likewise with colors. And he who is rough

with charcoal is never exquisit with colors. And by a

line of charcoal, masters pass judgement on their

apprentices. First make the outline of your drawing, that is

the contour, lightly &amp; without any too careful work, but boldly. In

so doing, you will teach yourself to be an artist, and if you

need to undo anything, you will not waste as much time as if you had

elaborated it. Next, re-work all the distinctive lines, &amp; do not keep

too close to your panel, but occasionally step away from it to better

judge the proportions. Once the first drawing seems good to you, retrace

all the lines with the paintbrush in rose color or

another color in gum or distemper. Thus you will work more

confidently with colors, and with less effort.

Drawing

To become an artist, one needs to draw by

eye, without compass or ruler.

Masters do not allow apprentices to do this.

When the imprimatura has been long done, it becomes greasy.

One needs to rub it with ash &amp; water.

Perspective

To know the point, one needs to lay down a ruler over the

lines, &amp; at the intersection of these, the point will

be. Some make a hole at the end of their

rulers to fix the point by that hole &amp; move the

ruler about. Others lay down a ruler across the panel,

then on this laid-down ruler they set the tip of another

ruler, which, attached to the former by means of a screw,

moves about &amp; reaches as far as necessary without losing the point.

The ruler and compass without the judgement of the

eye cause errors. Perspective is very difficult.

To paint perspective in oil, you ought not to use a

ruler, for you would smudge everything. But when layering your

colors you need to keep to the &amp; follow the lines of your

first drawing.

Also, to make plumb lines, which go from the top

to make vif to the bottom of the panel,

you need to have a thread with some piece of lead

attached to one end &amp; a little hook to the other for

hanging the said thread from the top of the panel.

Panel

To draw &amp; to layer the colors, especially in oil, it is necessary that you

hold your panel as upright as you can on the easel, for if

it is slanted there is a danger that some dust &amp; dirt might stick on

it. Keep clean &amp; without dust the place where you paint.

Amaranth color

Although it is said to be immortal, it is nonetheless the case that

white wine removes its tint &amp; turns claret-colored, on &amp; the dry flower ends up white afterward. Note that in this way the

wine, &amp; I have p tested it. Eau-de-vie does as much.

Drying of oil

If the oil does not dry out, put in massicot &amp;

minium. There is no better oil than that of walnut, for

it dries out neither too soon nor too late.

Casting

The Germans use lead from Flanders because

it is very soft. And to cast better they take lead ore &amp; melt

it, &amp; separate what is melted from the filth &amp;

ore, &amp; pour it into a separate vessel, then the

bottom they make their cast with it. For the lead must not have been

put to work before, but rather completely new. Some cast into molds

of iron &amp; copper.

or new lead coming from the mine. They melt it twice

in a crucible. In the first one, they purge it of

filth. In the second, they en make the cast.

Shadows

German painters make their shadows on flesh

color of men with ground jet, stil de grain yellow

&amp; ocher.

Bistre

It is only used in distemper, &amp; with this wood color is

made.

Verdigris and another very beautiful bright green

One ought not to grind it with water alone, for that makes it

die. To render it beautiful in distemper, some grind it with

vinegar, but that makes it turn pale &amp; become whitish. To

render it beautiful, grind it with urine &amp; leave to dry.

Then, whenever you like, grind it with oil. And after you have

collected it with the spatula, before finishing to clean the

marble, grind stil de grain yellow on it. And you

will have a very beautiful green.

Velvets and blacks

One needs needs to make thee middle 

main layer very d dark, &amp; its folds &amp; highlights

very bright with white, &amp; on the edges ofu its light, you make a white

line. For blue &amp; green velvets, you highlight

touch the shading with peach pit black, which is very

black. For lake, black of pit coal which

makes a reddish black on lake for velvets. The

common charcoal makes a whitish black. P

Armor

Soft wood charcoal makes a bluish color. It is good for making

armor.

Stil de grain yellow

Is made with broom flower boiled well in

water, putting in enough alum, then ceruse.

Rosette

Some with chalk, but the best has its body with ceruse

&amp; brazilwood dye.

Flanders blue

In the month of May, one puts the cow

dung to putrefy under horse dung. Then one mixes

with florey.

Snow-covered landscapes

Only three colors are used for it: white, black &amp;

bistre.

Softening

If you have worked &amp; made your ground with some

desiccative color, such as minium &amp; similar, finish softening

while the work is fresh, for if you were to wait until the next

day, it would be dry &amp; you would not be able to finish it

neatly.

Working neatly

Never put down, if you can, two colors one on top of the other. But

next, having made your design carefully, keep the place of shadows for

them alone, &amp; also separately that of lights &amp; highlights,

without layering one color all over &amp; then highlighting or else shading

on it. And in this way, you further your work, economize your colors

&amp; work neatly. Which is the reason that, the colors not being

muddled nor mixed together, they do not die &amp; you soften the colors

better, since they are not so thick.

Fatty oil

It is not good for working with colors because it makes them thick,

&amp; as difficult to work as azur d’esmail. Therefore use the

clearest walnut oil that you can, &amp; the

freshest.

Vermilion

One ought not to keep it in water when tempered

ground with oil for it loses its color. It is better

to choose whitish vermilion than dark &amp; blackish. For

vermilion is commonly mixed with a little lake, without

which it would hardly be different from minium. But the pale 

casts more vivacity than the dark. It is not desiccative, &amp;

for this reason one mixes in calcined cristallin.

Oil colors in water

Commonly, after grinding them one puts a

fo piece of tin leaf on top, &amp; one puts

them in water to prevent them from drying out. But this is more

appropriate for ceruse, lead white, minium, &amp;

massicot than for the others, for lake dies there &amp;

loses its color, also azure, vermilion.

Double layer

Verdigris does not die, &amp; thus does not need

to be layered twice. But lake &amp; others, &amp; principally

flesh colors, the require two layers. Colors hardly change

when they are dry.

Yellow ocher

        

            

One needs a little of it in every flesh color.

Softening

        

            

One softens in the same way on oiled paper as on wood. But

it is easier to soften on canvas, because the softening must be

rougher on it.

Eye

        

            

Every eye must follow the circle of the compass &amp; not be

flat &amp; square.

Apprenticeship of the painter

First, one gives him an egg to do in which one has him make

half a face, then a whole one with the ears, next the neck, then the

parts of the body separately, next joined, then one figure, then two

&amp; three, finally a history, teaching him how to hold the

charcoal by the end, &amp; also the paintbrush.

Once he knows how to draw, one teaches him how to p layer colors.

One also presents him with these strokes &amp; lines.

CThe figure of the egg is the

main pattern for faces and for bent bodies, &amp; the cross as the cross is

the model for a straight &amp; whole figure.

Without these strokes you will never do well.

Softening

To soften well, one ought not to layer the colors thickly, but

rather layer them twice, if it is not azur d’esmail.

All colors that have no body in oil have none in

distemper, and but in distemper they sink to

the bottom. Distemper colors want to be fatty, which is

recognized when they take hold on the palette once tempered in

oil.

Straight lines

You can use the ruler, but do not lay it flat on the panel,

but as if lifted off, &amp; resting on the edges of the panel. Otherwise

you would smudge everything, &amp; also you would not see the stroke

well.

Distemper

Distemper colors need to be kept darker

pr while you temper them, because they whiten

while drying. But oil colors remain the same color.

Shadows

 Because blacks make different colors, some a reddish black, others

tending toward blue, and others toward green, choose those which tend

toward yellow to make beautiful shadows in oil, for the shadow,

especially that of men, is yellowish. And for this effect use very

strongly ground jet, which you will mix with a little

yellow ocher &amp; lead white. Or else, after

you have ground your lead white bro and

    clean p gathered it with the 

, grind the jet into it. Thus it will be more

desiccative, &amp; making on its own a yellowish black. A little white

mixed in renders it perfect for men’s shadows. Blacks which make a

greenish black are appropriate for women’s shadows. Take, then, some

black of , a little sap-green &amp; bistre, &amp;

you will have a perfect shadow for women in distemper.

The powder of orberé grain is darker than

umber &amp; when you lack umber, the said powder will do,

but it does not have body.

Flesh color

You must know well the mixing of colors &amp; the appropriate

shadows, but above all make sure to soften them well. And note &amp;

observe that a thing which appears flat needs to be softened lengthwise,

as if going from lettre a ga right to

left like

    

, and whatever ought to appear round must be softened in circles.

Mirror

When you make flesh colors, it is good to have a

cristallin mirror, which represents

nature well, and in which it you will see if your

shadows are soft enough or too crude. But do not look at it with a

candle, for firelight will make the shadows reddish.

The painter also teaches himself with the mirror,

for he sees in it what nature can do.

Fatty colors

If some part remains shiny and does not seem dry after the layered

colors have penetrated, it means that this place is fatty, &amp; that

the second colors one layers on would not take easily, unless

you rub this place with soap or breathe on it, because the

humidity will make the colors take.

One cannot layer oil on cut paper &amp; model as in

distemper because the color would run. Thus, to gild with

or mat, one needs to pounce &amp; then layer the gold

color with the paintbrush.

All fatty colors, such as ceruse and minium,

massicot, ocher, lead white, are good for making

gold color.

Every color or thing that becomes dense when water is put in during the

grinding has body. But those which do not have it, such as

pestled glass, lake, &amp;c, become clear.

Semi-lively colors

When colors aabsorb into the canvas, it

means that it has been given imprimatura only once, &amp; for this reason they

become matte rather than being shiny. But this is the best,

as long as you re-coat it twice, for in this manner, the colors, having

more body, do not die &amp; are all the more beautiful for it,

especially azure, lake, &amp; those do not have body. But

those who want to rush their painting apply imprimatura twice on the first go, to be

done with it. Thus the colors do not absorb, also they will not last as

long. The second layer of these does not absorb &amp; remains

shiny.

Painting large figures

You need to put your charcoal at the tip of a stick

such that you make your first drawing from a distance because up close,

you would not be able to judge proportions as well as from a certain

&amp; sufficient distance. Also, you when you paint up close, hold your

charcoal at the farthest end, &amp; de practically with your

fingertips. For in this way you will acquire an

artist’s l stroke &amp; will render your hand

nimble.

Glazing

One commonly glazes with colors that do not have body, such as

lake &amp; verdigris. However, to use other colors, one

mixes in a quantity of calcined &amp; ground cristallin, which also

has no body &amp; makes lightens the density of the others.

White and black

It is good that an apprentice should work with white

&amp; black for two or three years to become an

artist.

Lead white

It does not die &amp; has a lot of body.

From nature

        

There are some who paint from nature on oiled paper, &amp;

if they do not finish in one go, they put their paper &amp;

unfinished picture in water so that it shall not dry.

        

Illuminators painting on paper temper their colors

with gum &amp; mix in a little soap to make them run

better.

        

           

Painters must all learn how to depict after nature, for to them

it is travel provisions &amp; revenue &amp; sure means of earning their

passage when travelling across the lands with only their

cocon.

Imprimatura

One needs to be quite careful about this, &amp; not make it, as some

will, with gold color which is made with the washings of

oil paintbrushes, because verdigris &amp;

other corrosive colors which are in it will in the end will make

the colors die that are meu layered on next. It is

good to do it

with ceruse, &amp; a bit of yellow ocher, &amp;

a little massicot, &amp; make it not very thick in order that it does

not crack.

Double layers

The Flemish &amp; those who paint panels by the dozen only

make one layer &amp; finish at the first go, but the colors soon die.

And when they are layered twice, they do not die. One needs to layer

them lightly &amp; not very thick, to soften them well.

Shadows

For women, asphaltum, umber, &amp; a little

lake.

Painting in distemper on wood

        

Because it is very tedious to paint in distemper on

wood, and because one is at pains to make a good

a face on it, some thin their colors with glair of egg

passed through a sponge, or mixed with the yolk,

water, &amp; thoroughly beaten with the peelings of the fig

tree. With this 

| they paint &amp; soften on the wood,

as with oil, and this supports the varnish, but this does

not last.

Colors in oil that are imbibed

        

It is best that colors in oil are imbibed, that is to say

they do not remain shiny after they are dry, for they do not die. But if

in some places they are shiny, it is that the fattiness of the

oil has remained in that part, which would make the colors die.

The varnish mends all this &amp; unites &amp; renders it similar

in one place as in another.

        

It is necessary that gold color be laid down thick, for if it were clear, it

would be imbibed &amp; would run.

        

           

On canvas &amp; in distemper, one gilds with bole

&amp; honey &amp; a little garlic juice.

Gilding molding for panels with or mat

        

see the other side of this folio this mark:

*

        

The Flemish give a layer of distemper glue 

on the molding, then mix lamp black or

soot black with the same glue &amp; let dry.

Next they pounce some moresque in the corners &amp; paint it

with minium, massicot, &amp; ocre de ru,

and a little yellow ochre, tempered with fatty oil

in which they clean their paintbrushes for oil,

because the three aforesaid colors are gripping &amp; dry immediately.

Next they lay down the gold, then varnish on top of all. And it

seems to some by this means that all this black is painted in

oil, but it would not be good because the gold would

attach itself everywhere &amp; not only to the moresque. Go

back to the top to *

    *

To make or mat beautiful, put in a little varnish

or fatty oil, not from that which is made from the cleaning of

paintbrushes, but the pure, which is made fatty in

the sun or mixed with ceruse.

Or mat of this sort is scarcely less beautiful than

esburnished gold, and lasts

longer in the rain, &amp; besides, &amp; is made sooner.

Burnished gold cracks over time &amp; comes off

in the rain.

*

Or mat

        

It is made with massicot, minium, ocre de ru, 

&amp; yellow ochre, in order that the composition

resembles gold. Gild the day after un

jo it is laid down if you in the make the

seat for the color in the evening. After having gilded,

let it dry &amp; rest one day, next rub the gilding

with a feather &amp; cotton in order

that no protrusions remain, then varnish with Flanders

varnish, which you make mixed with a little eau-de-vie, to render it desiccative.

The varnish will be dry in an hour. It

will increase the color of gold. And this or mat holds

in the rain, even if one rubs it. But it must be well dried

for eight or ten days.

Gold color that is made of different colors cleaned from

paintbrushes for oil is not so good, &amp; with

time, tarnishes the gold because of the verdigris. One

must not touch with a finger the layer made for

the gold because that will keep it from attaching itself. The or

moulu is spoiled if water touches it, but the or

mat holds well in the rain &amp; in water.

One must not burnish it, because the tooth would remove it.

Gather the protrusions &amp; small flakes that the

cotton makes lift off when the gold is

dry &amp; you clean it, for an ounce is still gold. In

Flanders, women make gild. It is more

beautiful when it is a little thick, but in France they beat it

too delicately.

Breathe on the gold color, and if it fogs up, it is dry enough,

but if it does not receive the vapor of the breath, it is not

enough.

One ought not to gild with or mat after with

having gilded. But wait one day or one night, But

take heed not to and when it is as if dry, it grips the

gold. Next, one varnishes.

When gold color starts to grip, it is a sign that in ten or twelve

hours it will be dry &amp; appropriate for

gilding.

For preventing teats from swelling 

    d or to diminish overly large ones

Take large loaves of bread freshly drawn from the

oven &amp; split them in half &amp;, as hot as may

be done, apply them &amp; they &amp; do this 3 times a

day &amp; continue 4 or 5 days.

Next, make a plaster with Venice turpentine or better,

common turpentine. Mix in sumac,

blackthorn sloes, quince seeds,

pomegranate flowers, olive tree leaves,

&amp; the like, decocted, &amp; mix with the turpentine. But, I

forgot, one needs, after having applied the hot bread, which

softens &amp; makes one sweat, to put on linen cloths soaked with water

from a honey bee hive, that is to say honey &amp;

wax extracted all together from the honeycomb.

For attracting pigeons

Fry hemp seed in a pan with oil

&amp; give it to the pigeons.

Against bruising of the eyes

At night, apply very thin sheets of lead. Singular

remedy.

Paintbrushes

To make them well, cut the hair from the tail of a

squirrel’s fur, as much in one go as one can hold in a

card folded up like a cannule. And putting it thus into

the said folded card, tap it &amp; shake

it such that the hair comes together &amp; is rendered

the same length. Put one or two bristles of a rat’s

whiskers in the middle, then, grabbing it with the fist &amp;

pinching it well with the thumb &amp; index finger,

thoroughly wet the tip of all this hair in water, then,

moving close to the

light, pull out the hairs which make the tip too long with the

ends of your fingernails, and this until the tip seems good to

you, &amp; until you notice in it the rat hairs

which are entirely black &amp; the hair of the

petit-gris is at the

whitish from the root to the middle. When it pleases you, bind

b and tighten it very well with a thread in

two places, then cut the excess &amp; fit it in a quill of a

convenient thickness for it, of a duck or a crow for the

small ones. Good paintbrushes are those that, once dipped

in water, do not bulge when you trace on your hand.

Oil

All oil which is imbibed by paper &amp; once heated by

fire evaporates &amp; leaves the paper clean, like

turpentine &amp; spike lavender oil, is good for

making varnish.

Sand

Every ground &amp; tempered thing becomes porous, according to

some.

Bellows furnace

Before putting in the metal, it is necessary that it be red

at the bottom, like a charcoal &amp; well inflamed. Next,

you  fill it &amp; cover the charcoal &amp;

adjust the bellows, otherwise the metal on top would

melt by means of the bellows &amp; its bottom would be

curdled &amp; cooled &amp; would not run. But if you proceed in this

manner you will melt everything you like.

Varnish on paper

The Germans make boxes p covered with painted

paper &amp; varnish it with glair of egg mixed with

gum &amp; a little oil, not of spike

lavender, but another fragrant one that resembles

olive oil. Every work done with glair

supports oil. It is with this that painters trick the

poor peasants, painting their bands of taffeta with

this glair, to be done sooner. But the first rain

carries away everything.

Files

If they are not trempées à pacquet, that is, in the fashion

described, with soot, salt, &amp; vinegar, they

will not be good. The square large square files used

by locksmiths for their rough work are only made of

soft iron, but the soft files must be made of

steel. Founders whose work is to repair latten

&amp; copper must have their files d

coarse otherwise they would fill up with the copper which would

make them smooth &amp; soon render them useless. Latten, which is

more brittle, welcomes softer files than copper

does.

Bones of the foot of oxen for sand

Once having been burned well twice &amp; pulverized, they mold very

neatly in sand &amp; need not be reheated, but simply heated with the

flame of straw. But if you mold them en noyau, give it

its first layer, simple &amp; very thin, with a

paintbrush, &amp; leave to dry at ease. Next, fortify the

following layers with wadding mixed with the said tempered

sand of bone.

It is the neatest sand that can be found for copper.

Essential oils

Walnut oil mixed with as much of

turpentine &amp; distilled through an alembic renders an

essence whiter than common water. But this has no body &amp; does

not give bond to colors that are immediately imbibed, and then leaves

the color without hold and fading. These, imbibing in this way,

would not give you leisure to work and soften any more than in distemper. But

you mend this defect by giving it a little body with

turpentine, not at all so thick as for varnish. And thus you can

work with azur d’esmail &amp; will make a perfect

lead white. Turpentine varnish made with this oil

is dry in one hour.

Fanciful tables

You can make various grooved compartments &amp; in these, put

fishes painted from nature &amp; with colors on simple

carton, &amp; if you please, on silvered &amp;

burnished paper which will represent the scales. And next,

cover this with very clear lantern horn. You can apply the same

to other works.

Planting trees

 One needs to plant them in dry place

dry weather, &amp; gather plenty of earth at the

foot all around, like a mound, in order that the rains do not fill

the holes &amp; drown the trees.

Casting

I have tried four kinds of sand for lead &amp; tin:

chalk, pestled glass, tripoli &amp; burnt

linen, all 4 excellent. But as for the chalk, it needs to

be of the softest kind you can find, like the Champagne one

that painters use. It releases very neatly, does not want

to be moistened with magistra or anything else, but needs to be

completely dry, in its natural state, finely

pulverized. The first cast is always the

neatest; however, it will well withstand two or three. But there is only

the first one that you need to take heed of, when you want to remake

your frame mold to take new powdered chalk that has not

yet been put to use, for the one previously used in the frame has

dried out &amp; does not have as much hold &amp; bond like the fresh one.

Pestled glass can be made from common glass sand, however,

cristallin is more excellent, for common glass contains

glass salt of saltwort only, but

cristallin contains both salt of tartar &amp;

saltwort all together, which both help fusion, the glass

once calcined &amp; reduced as if to its prime substance. In order to

calcine it perfectly, throw your pieces of glass, whichever it be,

among the largest possible lit charcoals that you can, if you are

    lacking another amenity tfor violent firet.

And when it is well red, throw it into

water

Putty is considered excellent for these two metals.

and immediately you will be able to crumble it between your

fingers and easily pestle in a mortar of metal, 

or better yet, of iron. Next, it

will be easy to grind it, not only on common

marble that would corrode, but on

porphyry, and it is necessary that it be finely ground

with water so that when putting it on your

fingernail, you find it soft without any asperity, like

the p colors that the painters grind for oil. This one, once dry, you can

use au lie instead of sand, in a frame 

without moistening it with anything nor reheating it, if you do

not want to; fumigate the hollow form with sulfur smoke or de

p with the tip of the flame of a wax candle

that barely makes smoke, and it will make a very neat &amp; shiny &amp;

polished work, in pure lead &amp; tin. I would

say the same for finely pulverized tripoli that does not want to

be not reheated or moistened. Burnt linen gives less

trouble than any other, because it needs neither to be reheated nor to be

moistened, &amp; molds and releases very neatly &amp;

very, subtly &amp; releases well neatly, like the

previous ones do as well, &amp; withstands several fusions. First one ought to burn

it with a flame, then leave it to rest &amp; to be consumed with its

fire until it wears it out, then finely grind it on

marble or on a paper. But because a

lot And if you reheat it in a crucible, red hot due to

the fire, to render all of it fine &amp; impalpable, I believe it will

be even better. But because a lot of linen is reduced to very

little when burned, if you want to save some, you can sprinkle only the

medal that you want to mold &amp; cover it, and fill the frame with pestled slate, which molds also very neatly. But

note that the first cast is always the most beautiful &amp; the neatest.

If you cast opportunely, soft tin that seems to be

burnished in little wheels that pewterers sell, comes out

very neatly &amp; approaching the color of silver, without mixing

in anything. It is true that one ought to cast it rather hot, &amp;

so that the molded object should be 4 fingers away

from the cast. In order to know its heat, first melt it well, so

hot with such a degree of heat that it

promptly burns in a shiver a paper or straw placed

inside. Then remove it from the fire &amp; leave it to

rest a little &amp; cast. Tin mixed

with half lead comes out almost better than pure tin

pure or or lead, even

though in any case they come out well. Nevertheless take care not to

cast lead at all as hot as tin. In big works it is necessary

    to moisten the sands with magistra or glair of egg.

Joiner

Three things take the longest to make: leaves, hair &amp;

garlands.

Sand

You should not choose for casting the one that is in any way so lean

&amp; arid that it does not have bond, like the one from the

sea or desei from sandy

paths dried out by the sun. But choose

them or in t in the first place from

quarreriesries or rock caves,

because that one is best, provided that it is very fine. You will recognize the

vein of it if, among the greyish rocks or quarries

qu that seem to be made of arene,

you see, after rainy weather, certain small

patches like dust attached to the said rocks, or if due to the

humidity, a small piece of it flakes off, which easily crushes between your 

hands. You will also find in lean soils some which comes

off in lop large lumps like stones of

tuf et ne, or among terres

bolvenes, which are much better than those in

fatty &amp; strong earths. And one ought not to take it from the

surface, for fear that it be mixed with common earth, but three

or 4 feet below &amp; the closest to the

tuf or stone. Since it comes out in large lumps one would say that it starts to take shape as a stone. But when it is wet, it

comes apart easily. One needs to make sure that when breaking it up it

is quite granular, &amp; that when cushed between the

fingers, it renders itself into very great subtlety, like 

impalpable, keeping nevertheless its sandy asperity, without muddying the

fingers like clay. It is dried slightly on the

 fire, then it is pestled &amp; passed finely through a double

sieve or a linen sleeve, then is moistened with

wine or magistra &amp;c / Verte

The Toulouse molder reheats it strongly then grinds

it finely on marble and passes it through a

linen &amp; moistens pass it with

wine. He makes the cast very broad &amp; ne

flat &amp; barely deep. He casts pure latton used for trebuschets

&amp; similar thin things. He casts very hot.

Try calcined vitriol.

The sand near my area is very excellent. But one ought

to, in order to make an excellent work, take it fresh, which has been hardly

put to work. For it dries out after having been cast several times &amp; is

lean &amp; has no body. If you cast some fine work which has hardly any

thickness, it is necessary that your substance of copper be very

hot so that it penetrates &amp; runs. Some mix lead in this

melt, but it is for large works &amp; not for small ones.

Sand from oxen feet, burned twice &amp; finely ground,

melts more neatly with copper than sand that I have seen,

&amp; without crust. I have cast a high relief medal with it, and

f with a thickness as delicate as a knife

blade or a card. And it was hollow on one side, opposite the

relief, which was on other side.

It is necessary that lean sands be more moistened than

others, namely with magistra or good pure wine or

boiled wine with elm tree roots &amp; similar things.

But very fine sands, like burned linen, which is fatty &amp;

soft on its own, want to be applied dry.

All moistened sand wants to be strongly beaten &amp; stirred, to

be ground finely &amp; to flatten out the clods that it makes in itself

when it is bathed.

The olive oil that some mix in with beaten egg

glair makes it become porous.

Sand of calcined glass withstands several fusions, but there

is nothing like the first ones. It also becomes porous.

Latten comes out well on its own, but it runs too quickly. It is

good to mix it with a little copper, like a quarter

part, with the substance of skillets.

Founders do cast frames up to 30 or 40 lb,

but not more.

It is good for big work, but for small ones it is troublesome for

releasing Il because it crumbles. It is good that

it be alloyed with some fatty thing which has bond such as molded

tripoli or ab burned felt or sal

ammoniac or tripoli &amp; similar things.

When you have molded, it is good to reheat your mold on the fumes of

the substance you are melting, because the cast is imprinted with the quality

eof the metal, which afterward runs more easily in something that comes from it.

 Human bones are the best for casting once

calcined.

To cast neatly, it is necessary that your substance be quite hot

&amp; to achieve this, when your substance is melted, throw in some

iron scales, either in powder or otherwise E, for

it heats copper a lot &amp; cleanses it of its grease. At the

end, when you want to cast, add some saltpeter, by folding your

additions in a paper in order that everyone may not know what you

mix in.

Sheep foot bones are even better than those of oxen

foot.

Oil &amp; tallow make it very porous, &amp;

    pestled glass, &amp; copper alone.

Cendrée earth molds very neatly.

Ash does not have enough body to withstand

copper.

It is better not to mix the sands, but to fill the frame with

one only.

Latten is always fatty, &amp; does not mold neatly. One finds

that it comes out better alloyed with a quarter of

copper, but let it be cast very hot.

    Copper comes out well with a bit of metal. If you mix

in metal within latten, it will be more brittle &amp; more

troublesome.

Slightly coarser sand has more body.

Sand from corp rock is always better,

which seems like tuf in lumps, which has a beautiful

&amp; very fine grain, &amp; a little fatty. One pestles it, then one

dries it in a skillet on the fire, until it is no longer

smokes, then one passes it through a fine &amp; double sieve,

&amp; one molds with it.

Copper or latten cannot come out well if the medal does

not sufficient thickness, &amp; if it does not have it, give it some

with wax.

Some cast through a hole made in the middle of the reverse side of the

medal.

Some, wanting to cast large works in latten, y

mix in the sand some pestled glass to give the earth

bond. But it makes it porous, and the work needs to be repaired.

One puts in lead for a large work to make it run, but not

not

for in a small one because it would leave filth all around

the work.

Copper is bett and latten are proper to

cast &amp; at the right heat when they throw off, while stirring them in the

crucible, a very white flame &amp; that the bath is very

liquid.

Some cast in well ground ceruse pour

le, others in flour moistened several times with

oil &amp; g &amp; dried in the

sun.

Others, for casting in lead, old

printers' type or the composition thereof.

Others put into the tin or lead a substance of

fixed quicksilver which makes it run.

Amber

It softens like paste when boiled in melted wax, and

takes color boiled with ceru fat of a young goat kid, for that of

a goat buck would make it break, principally if it is glazed.

Wood with streaked grain

The elm, in its knotty root, has beautiful streaks

diversified with grey and black, and the root of the

maple, but one needs to chose well the grain of the

wood. One gives the maple a certain yellow color,

then one varnishes it.

Mulled and sugared wine

The English, when they feel a cold coming on, mull wine in this

manner. They heat it in a large tin pot until

it boils, and when it is boiling up, they remove it from

light it with burning paper to know if it is hot

enough. Next, to ignite it entirely, they pour it from one

vessel into another, as one who wants to beat eau

panée, and as they are doing this, someone else lights with a

burning paper what is falling from one vessel into the

other, such that you would think you were pouring fire. When the

wine is mulled enough, heat it again a little, adding a few

cloves &amp; a sufficient quantity of sugar. And

they dri drink it as hot as they can to overcome a cold.

The common English put sugar in wine to affect

    for themselves the sweet new wine which they cannot have because,

owing to the long sea crossing, the wine has lost its

sweetness and is clarified before it reaches their country.

Weary horses

For fortifying a harried horse, they make it drink some of

the aforesaid wine through a horn, and it finds itself

disposed for doing an even greater labor.

Eau-de-vie

The Irish do not drink any wine because they convert

it into eau-de-vie, which they use almost as habitually as we use

wine.

Varnish

To a half lb of spike lavender oil, put in

4 ℥ of sandarac &amp; mastic subtly pulverized. 

And first, boil your oil in a

pot on a chafing dish, and then mix in little by

little the aforesaid gums, stirring continually with a

small stick split and quartered at the tip, &amp; when you do

not collect gum with the tip, that is to say that it is totally

melted &amp; that your varnish is done. And to render it clearer,

put in a small lump of camphor to decoct. It is true that

with this it is not dry so soon. Heed well that the spike

lavender oil be good, clear &amp; not fatty, otherwise

your varnish would be worth nothing. You can test it

d by soaking some paper in it &amp; heating

it. If the oil, which will evaporate, leaves the paper

clean, without being a yellow mark, it is good, if not, it is

fatty.

Sheep fat

In a certain region of England, the sheep that

graze there have very yellow fat and are nevertheless just as good as

others.

Spider

In Ireland, there are none, &amp; if one touches them

with wood that is there, they die. This is why some

rich people of England make their ceilings from this

wood, &amp; by this method, they never have cobwebs

&amp; spiderwebs.

Sand

Grindings are very good for casting in

copper, but one ought not to take those of

cutlers, because it is only sludge, but rather those

of those who grind mold large shears.

Pierres de filieres, with which those who sharpen, mold very neatly, once scraped, for lead. It is

commonly slate-colored. One frequently brings them to

Toulouse from around Carcassonne .

Printer’s letters

Those who make them, mix into the lead some

nails nailheads &amp; old

horseshoes, &amp; antimony which makes it all melt.

This composition is strong for printing, &amp; holds up. It runs

and is good for casting in lead.

Casting in copper 

It is necessary that the frame be quite even &amp; that

it fits well also on the board where it is set, so that it holds

firm &amp; does not shift when one molds. It is necessary that the sand

be clean &amp; well chosen and well reheated, &amp; pulverized very

finely on marble, for the one that you want to put

first on the medal, and that you press strongly when molding. Guard against

oiling your medal, for this would make it porous. Reheat slowly

and reheat well, &amp; let cool. Moisten your sand with wine boiled

with elm root, and cast latten which comes out well /

namely from the substance of the trebuschets and similar

thin things. Make your gate broad &amp; even if it is barely thick, it

will not be worse off, but it will enter well in the mold. Cast

from the foot of the medal, in order that the face, further away from the

heat, comes out better &amp; more relieved from the violent heat. And if

your frame does not have vents, make some

qu in the sand, which come from the edges 

of the piece, to go into the gate. Cast very hot, which you

will recognize when you throw a little reserved substance in that

which is already well melted, &amp; if it melts quickly, this is a sign

it is fo quite hot. At that time, invigorate the heat

of your furnace with bellows of the right size,

keeping the mouth of the furnace well covered with some large

copper tile or other similar thing,

which should be very red before you cast. When you want to cast, take

your red-hot pincers &amp; the crooked

iron as well, to clean the charcoals which are in

your substance. Having cast, rub your work with a latten

wirebrush. The grindings from sharpening large scissors &amp;

large knives is very good for copper.

One believes it to be a great secret to put in

persicaire, which renders them soft as lead.Try

to extract salts from it.

Casting

Lead, which is mortified &amp; weighty, wants to be cast hot,

more so than tin. And when it is not hot enough, it makes lines

in the medal. It Straw burns in it, however little

hot it is. One can make a solder so soft &amp; runny that it can be

melted in a tin dish. It is composed of one

part looking-glass tin, one part soft

tin, &amp; another part lead. It runs very neatly

and is cast in leaves, but the work is very brittle &amp; breakable. The best solder is the common one for casting well, but

is leaves certain points lumpy. Alloy lead with

tin so that the ingot that you will cast comes out even &amp;

shiny &amp; polished, &amp; without any eyes or bubbles except for a

small point in the middle. And this sign will tell you that there is

enough tin, otherwise the lead dominates too much. Sand is

good for lead &amp; tin. The good one is very thin &amp;

fine &amp; lean, which nonetheless sticks together between one’s

fingers. The sand wants to be reheated before putting

it to use. And once to mold with it, it wants to

be much moistened &amp; then reheated, not all at once nor with a burst

of fire, for this corrupts &amp; makes it shrink &amp; crumble as well.

But if you reheat it gently, it renders itself very stiff, once well

moistened. One ought to pass it through a shirt

sleeve for the finest one, in order to put it first on

the piece to mold.

One makes a solder with quicksilver

but which is white, but it is brittle. Make it so that your frame 

joins well &amp; that one does not see the light between the joints.

The Germans cast their leads very thinly, because it seems 

they come out better than very thick ones, but in order that

are not too pliant, being so thin, they mix a little tin with the

said lead, which otherwise would bend like wax.

The blackest lead, so some say, is the best &amp; the softest

&amp; which runs the best. You will know its goodness by rubbing it

with your finger, which will render it very black

immediately.

The alloy good for running lead &amp; tin is per one

lb of lead, one lb &amp; a half of tin

aultr, in order that the tin exceeds more than one

part. It is solder which flows well &amp; is good

for casting, but it is brittle.

To make the lead flow well, one puts in a little

quicksilver.

Rub cuttlefish bone on a well evened table to

flatten it &amp; one against the other &amp; pierce through the two bones

with pegs to mark the place.

Cuttlefish bone molds lead better than

anything else. But try it to see if it needs reheating. One ought

to mold on the back of the bones &amp; from this side for the

marrow is more delicate there.

The bone marrow toward the tail is more delicate &amp; does have

not as many stripes &amp; molds more cleanly. The shell which

holds the marrow, once calcined, is good for making sand.

When you cast lead, you need to cast it cast very

neatly rather hot, &amp; not at once &amp; shake the

frame a little &amp; cast two or three times. However, if it

is cast too hot, it will rise up &amp; swell. When it is very hot, it

becomes blue, let it then pass this color deva &amp;

rest a little before casting.

Some, such as printers, mix iron or pin filings 

in the lead, but in order to render it

hard. But this renders it brittle &amp;not it breaks under

the hammer.

Take a wirebrush to clean your molds.

For making blue varnish

Take the blue of flowers florey or of

Flanders &amp; quicklime, and put around

four fingers of water over it, and let it soak one

day. Take the water where the said

lime has soaked, and put your blue with it, and lay

it down on the wood.

For orange color

Take water in which lime has soaked and put

terroy merita, one with the other, and then

set on your wood.

For ridding bone or horn of grease

One needs to make them boil in quicklime, and let there always

be water, and take a very clean pan. And when they are

washed, boil them in the ash of vine shoots, and

put them into the hottest pot you can, and put into the pot

goldsmith’s water, verdigris, and leave for 

the space of some time, and you will see a very beautiful green color.

For making gray wood

Take alum with river water, make them boil together,

then take river water with bran, submerge the bran

and beat it together. Take iron filings &amp; sulfur &amp;

    verdigris and grindings , and make

it all boil together, and pound maplewood which will

have been soaked in alum water and well water, &amp;

put it to boil together. All of this will be done better in a hollow

grais.

For making bronze in gold color

Take one ounce of sal ammoniac and grind it in an

iron mortar. Once well ground, take one ounce

of sulfur, and

grind it separately. When it is well-ground, take the sal

ammoniac &amp; grind it together again. Then take one ounce

of soft tin &amp; one ounce of quicksilver, then

melt your tin &amp; put your quicksilver drop by drop into

your tin while melting, &amp; stir strongly until it is

powder.

For coating it

Take some glue of Partenay or parchment

and apply it with the white of one egg, then take a little

saffron and vinegar and the milk of the fig

tree, and do another coat. Then take the bronze and

apply it on top.

Varnish

Take two ounces of spike lavender oil &amp;

one ounce of sandarac. Take a clean pot, &amp;

warm it, &amp; then take it from the fire, and next put the drugs

inside, and next put them into a vial, &amp; apply it on the

wood.

Another recipe for making varnish

    Take one ounce of verinseVenice

turpentine &amp; one quarter ounce of oil of perolle

petrolle &amp; one ounce of sandarac

&amp; one of spike lavender oil.

Color of burnished copper

Take one ounce of sal ammoniac with one

ounce of brouillamini and half of copper

filings with one ounce of sulfur &amp; a 

half-septier of vinegar. Push it all into a small

tile oven and make a small charcoal fire around it, and put

your pot into the said oven for the whole

day.

For bronzing white

Take looking-glass tin &amp; put it to soak in gum

water &amp; pestle it in a mortar. And next, you will put it

on marble.

For making vermilion

Take two pounds of sulfur, &amp; melt it, &amp; put

it into two pounds of merecuse

mercury. And if this substance ignites, cover it quite

gently, so the air does not pass into the pot, then put the

whole for some time after into a leaded pot, onto the

fire for the space of twenty-four hours. You will

have good vermilion.

For making varnish

Take one pound of linseed oil, and then you

will put it in a earthen pot, mixed with a crust of

bread and three onions, and put it on top of a

charcoal fire, and you will cook it on a little fire, so that it

boils for the space of five hours. You will take

half an ounce of flour glue, &amp; you will

make it boil just as before and stir with a spoon. And then,

after, you will put in two ounces of well-pestled

sandarac &amp; will do as above. And then after, you will take

mastic &amp; arrabeic,

two ounces each, which will both be well ground, and you

will put everything together, &amp; will make it boil while stirring

continuously, for the space of five hours. And then

you will put d’araucq rock alum,

two ounces, &amp; then you will make it boil. And if you add

two ounces of

l’arablearabic to it, if you see

that they are not cooked enough, have it cook more on a low

fire until it is cooked enough. And pour it into a cloth

that should be rather tight. And when you have poured it, let it to

cool a little. And if you see that it is too thick so that you cannot

pour it, you will put a little of the said oil &amp; you will

make it better.

For making red varnish

Take vermilion and make it soak in quite clear gum water, 

like the other. Make two or three ground layers as above.

For making yellow varnish

Take some gum arabic &amp; soak it tr

with water, then take some well beaten saffron, &amp;

temper the said gum, and make it quite clear, then make your ground

layer on that which you want to varnish, &amp; let it dry, &amp; when it

is dry give another ground layer of the same, &amp; let it dry as before

until it is dry enough. Then take varnish from an

apothecary, dash by blows, one quite far from the other.

Then wash your hands quite well &amp; with your

palm spread your varnish.

Recipe for white gum

Take white wax &amp; ceruse &amp; a small amount of fine

pitch very well pestled together, &amp; put it in a small new

pot &amp; make it melt. And when it will be melted you will

make a spatula of wood of&amp;

burnish what you want.

Green gum

Take green wax with a small amount of verdigris and make it

melt as above.

Red gum

Take red wax, vermillion, &amp; a small amount of

resins resin pitch, as above.

Bronze of copper

Take da some verdet &amp; clear

glue, &amp; grind it together. Then make a layer on your

wood, and take pin filings, and grind it on

marble with water, then pour it on the

wood &amp; polish it with copper.

Bronze like tin

Take looking-glass tin, two ounces of

quicksilver, &amp; melt the looking-glass tin into a new

pot. And difiant

as soon as it is all melted, put in the

quickt aiantsilver, &amp; remove it

from the fire, &amp; let the said glue dry. Then take a piece of

tin &amp; burnish it on marble with clear

water, and then coat it on the wood, and polish it with a

piece of tin.

For making aquafortis

Take a half-septier of vinegar with one

ounce of verdigris, &amp; one ounce of

copperas &amp; one ounce of solle, then

put them together in a glass vial.

Or moulu

Take fine gold &amp; put it on a quite clean

bu marble &amp; put aquafortis &amp; start crushing. Then take saltpeter &amp; sal

ammoniac, and put it into a shell which should be large

&amp; washed, for safekeeping.

For making gray wood

One needs to take three half-septiers of iron

filings, xviii s deniers'-worth of

glass alum, &amp; as much green copperas,

six deniers'-worth of verdigris, am pitch,

&amp; a quart of cuyr currier's

water, and if you cannot find it, you will put more

rainwater  of small degree.

For gilding on wood

First one needs to put down a layer of very clear glue, and

once dry, you will put down a layer of yellow gold. And when it is

done, you will take fig tree wood, &amp; put it to soak

some space of time, &amp; wash the places you want to gild, and

cut your gold with a knife to the price that you will

lay. And one must lay the said gold with 

iecotton. 

And if you can find a fig tree,

take the the white of one egg &amp; stir it vigorously.

If your gold does not have beautiful enough color, you will take

a partridge feather, &amp; make it burn in a

chafing-dish, and make the smoke go against what you have

gilded.

For gilding with or moleu

One needs to take a shell of gold

and, before you want to work with it, you will put it to soak with gum

water and lay it down with a paintbrush, &amp;

polish it with a skin wolf’s tooth when it

is dry.

Recipe for putting all woods in color

For making it black, one needs to soak it in olive

oil, and similarly for horn, as the case may be, four or five

days, &amp; then boil it where it has soaked

for the space of one hour, &amp; take it out of the

oil, and take some natural sulfur or another

if you cannot find it, and cover the said wood with this

powder, until it is cool, &amp; you will make it boil again, &amp;

boiling it, one will see if it is black enough or not. If it is not

enough, you take the said powder &amp; put it on the said wood

while boiling.

For making wood green

One needs to take one quart of white vinegar &amp; one

ounce of green &amp; one ounce of glass alum, all mixed together, and you will put your substances

into a leaded pot over the fire without taking air,

&amp; then put the pot in a dung heap for

fifteen days, and once it is out, you will boil your

substances for the space of three hours.

For making wood red

Take one quart of old urine and three ounces of

madder &amp; one ounce of glass alum, and you will put all in your pot, &amp; do

as with green.

For making it blue

Take one quart of urine as above and one ounce

of alum &amp; two drams of sal ammoniac &amp;

half an ounce of pastel woad flowers, the whole made

into powder, and do as with green.

For making it violet 

Take one quart of urine &amp; one ounce of

alum &amp; two drams of sal ammoniac &amp; one of

lake, &amp; do as above.

For making it yellow

Take urine as above and two ounces of

guesdre woad &amp; one ounce of fustet

and two ounces drams of sal ammoniac, &amp; do as above.

For making very beautiful color of gold &amp; of little

expense

First take very yellow orange peel, &amp; clean them

well of the white that is inside, &amp; pulverize them very well

and in a very clean mortar. And take as

much of sulfur, &amp; grind all together, and put everything in

a glass vial, &amp; keep them in the cellar or

other damp place for the space of eight or ten

days. Then when you want to use it, one needs to

warm it and use it where you want, &amp; you will see a very beautiful

color.

For making black goumiche

Take some glue, &amp; temper it with vinegar, &amp; melt it, and it should be very clear. And take lampblack or another

black &amp; mix them together, then put it on wood.

For the white 

One needs to take white wax with ceruse, and melt it all

together, &amp; lay it on wood or another thing.

For gilding iron or tin

First one needs to wash that which one wants to gild in wine

lees, and then wash it again with white wine, and take three

ounces terra merita &amp; a chopin of

white wine, and boil the substances the space of half an

hour, &amp; put down your colors on your iron or

tin, or other, and then let it dry on a piece of

paper, &amp; not put the hand in your

materials.

Against redness of the face

Make a small lead cap &amp; wear it overnight.

Excellent secret. Try a lead mask.

Medicine of the orientals against all

maladies

Dry rosemary in the month of

May, then fill this bowl with powder of it, and

put a lit charcoal on top. And, receive the

smoke by a quite tightened mouth, and a part will come

out by your nose. But if you want to purge the head

also pinch the nose. Against colds, rheums, and other

maladies.

Fatty earth

Founders, to make the handles of their bells, use it. And

before it is used, they beat it very well, then leave it to dry in

the shade, little by little &amp; for a long time, and mold with

it very neatly. But it must not be sandy

&amp;, but rather well chosen &amp; soft.

Recipe for making bronze and varnish of many

sorts

For making excellent varnish with clear water which

you will use with a paintbrush and immediately dry, for

putting on paper, a tablet, or another piece.

First, you will take five ounces of eau-de-vie

and one ounce of benzoin pestled between

two pieces of paper or card or in a mortar,

but it should not be too small, then take  a

glass vial not too big and put into it a half of these

two, namely two &amp; a half ounces. Next take the said

benzoin just as coarsely pestled, and put it to use with the

said water and let it rest for the space of one &amp; half

days, &amp; then take the said water &amp;

put it into another glass vial &amp; mix it very well.

And on the rest of the said benzoin that remains at the bottom of

the said first vial, put the rest of the water over this,

and do as before when you see that the case is going well, and mix the

first water with the second. By means of this you will be able to

use it for something more noble.

Another approved varnish

Take two ounces of linseed oil &amp; two

ounces of petrolle oil and two

ounces of mastic, the whitest you can find, and of

glass alum, &amp; grind it, and take a little bit of

white copperas, and put all these drugs together into an

earthen pot that should be new, and lay it on hot

ashes for a bit, and you will see a beautiful

varnish.

Another varnish

Take petrolle oil &amp; spike

lavender oil, as much of one as the other, &amp; mix it

together with copperas, &amp; make them melt over hot

ashes, according to the quantity that you want to make. To lay

down this varnish, put three coats on the work that you want to

varnish.

Another varnish

Take one ounce of spike lavender oil &amp;

of sang de raiye

da Rac &amp; make

these drugs melt in a new earthen pot, &amp;

when it will be melted, you will pass it in a clean cloth

&amp; you will see a beautiful varnish.

Another varnish

Take one ounce of spike lavender oil &amp;

heat it over charcoals, &amp; then take a half ounce of

sang dea

Raiec

&amp; grind it coarsely, and then put it into the spike

lavender oil, &amp; then mix it with a stick until you

see that it is melted, and then put it in a glass vial.

And when you want to use it, heat it little by little over the

charcoals. And before putting it down, put down a coat of very

clear glue, &amp; then put it down with a paintbrush.

For making red varnish

Take vermilion &amp; temper it with gum water as well

as with other water, and make it like the other varnish,

&amp; mix this other water like the other varnish, and

then lay it down as before for making three green.

For making green trwood

Take very strong vinegar, salt, &amp;

rainwater, and one needs to put it all together with

verdigris, and put it in a new earthen vessel

with your wood, &amp; put it in some very warm horse

dung for the space of eight or nine days.

For making bronze in the color of steel

Take glass alum &amp; antimony, but one

needs twice as much glass alum as

antimony, and pestle the whole together in an iron

mortar, &amp; then mix with gum water while grinding it on

marble, &amp; then one needs to use it with a

paintbrush, &amp; next let it dry, and then polish it

with a tooth of a wolf or dog.

For making bronze in the color of gold

Take copper filings &amp; ocher &amp; gum &amp;

alum, &amp; grind it all together in a stone

mortar, and when it is well ground, you will lay it on the work

with a paintbrush, then polish it with a tooth of a

wolf or dog.

For making bone or horn green

Take verdigris &amp; temper it with strong vinegar, then

soak your bone or horn an hour, &amp;

then put it to use.

For making bronze

Take pin filings &amp; other of latten, &amp; put

it together, &amp; grind it on marble, grind it well

with water little by little, until they are distilled, then put them

into some new vessel. And

when you want to use some of it, mix it with very clear glue,

&amp; then you will layer it on what you want two or three times, &amp;

then let it dry. But before layering it, lay down on it one layer of

very clear glue, &amp; let it dry, &amp; rub the said

bronze with a tooth of a wolf or

dog.

Making gray wood

Take some grais powder, ___ ___ ___, iron filings,

ironware, alum, currier’s’ black,

copperas, &amp; glass alum.

For making water for disease of the eyes

Take white copperas, &amp; heat it a little on the fire, then put

it as a powder on a white cloth stretched over a very clean

glass, &amp; the powder on top, then take

fountain water &amp; pass it through the said

cloth, while stirring the said powder with the

finger until it has all gone through. Then wash your

y eyes at any hour you wish

&amp; with the help of God, you will find yourself very well from it.

For making bronze in the color of gold

Take six ounces of calcined tin &amp; as much of

natural sulfur &amp; six ounces of sal ammoniac,

and put the tin to melt in a spoon. When it is melted,

put in quicksilver, and cast it in a line, then pestle all these

drugs together in a mortar,

&amp;

and put it into an earthen pot, &amp; it should have

many hot ashes underneath, &amp; little by little you will make

the fire underneath bigger and bigger, &amp; one ought not to move it,

&amp; when it is cooked, &amp; it needs to be for six

hours, mind that the fumes do not harm you

for they are bad.

For making varnish

Take some mastic, sang daRage

darac, gum arabic

&amp; spike lavender oil, as much of one as the other,

&amp; make them melt all together, &amp; before coating it, lay a coat

of glue quite clear, &amp; let it dry.

Antidote against the fumes of metals

In the morning, take a piece of toast with butter,

&amp; neither antimony nor any other vapor will be able to

harm you. Or put half a pig’s bladder in front

of the face.

Tin for casting

They use common tin, which is the one that

pewterers use to make plate, which is composed of 9 or

ten ten lb of fine lead for one

quintal of tin.

Some find that there is nothing better

than fine tin.

Mixture for printers

Make a layer of pulverized antimony, &amp; a layer

of latten &amp; old scrapings or thin plates of iron or

clo iron nail heads, and continue in this way

until the crucible is full. And melt inside a four à

vent, &amp; then mix a little tin &amp; fill up the

crucible with lead until it causes it. And

increase the fire &amp; mix to make the substances alloy well. The

mixture for large letters is harder.

Petard

They make them of fine substance &amp; fine copper, which is

capable of fifty lb of powder, in the shape of a

reinforced firkin, and having made a hole even of

with the ground at the foot of a wall with gimlets,

they set the said loaded petard in that hole, with the muzzle pointing

up, which makes a large breach.

Very hard white stucco

White wax, Venice turpentine,

eggshell, &amp; ceruse.

Fountains

If you wish to make water rise higher than its source, make a

pipe descend as in A B to B in order to give it push

to the water, then from B to C make the

pipe ascend again, which should not quite attain the height of

the source, which is represented to you by this horizontal line, then

make the pipe descend again from C to D, then raise it again,

higher than the line showing the height of the source. And do this

successively until you have reached the desired height, heeding

nonetheless that the length of the descending pipe should be

twice as long as the ascending pipe. This

cornet folded back on itself also shows you a perpetual

fountain which you can fit into some rock, pulling the water with

which it is filled by the tip marked E, by sucking &amp;

breathing in. You can also make a watering pipe in this manner, such

that the trussed-up length is as long as its straight pipe,

&amp; nevertheless does not descend as far down.

Founders of small works  of

tin

They usually cast with solder, even the things that should

not come out empty, for the latter require fine &amp; soft tin,

which however would not release, &amp; would not come out empty if it

was mixed or had some looking-glass tin mix

in it, just like they put in a little of it in soft

tin. They engrave their works on stones of which are made the

sharpening stones or files of barbers, which are found in

great flakes near the mountains, &amp; resemble

slate. They are of three colors: reddish, which is not as

perfect as the others because it does not last as long in the fire

&amp; as,one dard of the color of dark

slate, the other whitish. When they have some relief, first they

imprint it on carton, as thick as one

finger, to serve as a pattern, then with a

little compass &amp; little matching iron fittings, they

engrave their figures, having first flattened their stones &amp;

worn down one against the other, they make their p

molds of three or four pieces, to make a circle or a square which joins

perfectly, because the stones render themselves even. Before

casting, they rub the mold with tallow, which has quickly

absorbed it because it is hot. Then, taking fine powder of

quicklime in a linen, they pounce the mold while

beating with the linen on top, then blow a little on top

to prevent it from becoming porous. The main thing is to make vents, if

the work is largish. They make them in this manner, as you see

represented here. They pierce a hole in some place on the medal that is

least visible. And then with a borer they pierce the mold on

the side of the medal.

And if they want their work to stay pierced in any place, they drive in

a bit of cork at this place in the mold. And

the lead or tin will not attach to it. 

Make sure the pegs of your frame enter easily so

that in opening the frame will easily open without shifting anything,

and that your frames fit well together, &amp; the table

is quite even. 

Try to etch with distilled vinegar.

Try calcined oyster shells. They are said to be

excellent for molding.

Sand

One can find an excellent one on the little hill of

Puy David near Thoulouse

for lead, tin &amp; copper. It does not want to be

too much reheated because, drying out all at once, it loses its

bond &amp; burns at the first arrival of metal, which makes

the work lumpy &amp; not neat. It is better to reheat from a distance,

rather than with a straw flame, which generates

des some filth. Before filling in the frame, you can put in the finest sand you have in a very fine

linen, &amp; dry pounce the medal and then the moistened sand

that you put on top, which has more body, will grip it.

Tallow makes it porous.

Fixed mercury mixed in when one wants to cast, makes

metal lead run. But if it is pure, one ought to cast

very hot so that it runs. And vents.

Earth for molding

Tanner’s earth, or the one with which

potters make a whitening on pots to make lead run

better on them &amp; to prevent the lead from being absorbed into

them, is very good for molding the hollow forms of things you want make in

relief. It releases better than plaster or sulfur which

become hard once they have set. For the earth being ready, one

ought to beat it hard so that it does not crack. If the piece is very

large you can mold it in several parts. If you reheat it, it is

necessary that it be over a closed fire. One finds this earth at

Fosseret &amp; in another place

called Ox.

Plaster

It is necessary that it be well cooked, which you will recognize

when cooking it in an iron or metal pot, you

mix it with an iron rod, &amp; if it attaches to the

iron, it is not cooked enough, if not, it is good. The

water with which you temper it should be a little warm &amp; the

mold made with the aforesaid earth also a little hot.

The work of plaster does not last &amp; the faces &amp; delicate

things break if one does not give a coat of glue.

Carton

One ought to take paper from Florence, which is the

finest, &amp; pestle it &amp; soak it several times &amp; change the

water every day, so that it does not smell bad, &amp;

when you have molded it in the hollow form, put a

linen over it, &amp; from the back, rub the back of the

paper with a tooth, as if you wanted to burnish it, and

it will mold very neatly. Then glue the cloth on the back

with strong glue.

Sand

Only brick, very finely sifted, &amp; worn down one against

another, is good for all castings of lead and copper,

mixed with urine. This needs to be of that whitish

brick.

Making copper and latten run

Put in at the end, when it is very hot &amp; when you want to cast,

sal ammoniac &amp; saltpeter, which removes filth

&amp; heats it. Mix some ardides with the latten.

 Guard against the metal touching the iron or the

latten of the frame, but cover it with sand or

lute. Do the casting very evenly.

Sand

Calcined black pebbles from the river are good for

lead, but they dullen metal.

There is only  clay earth with which one makes tiles, reheated &amp; reddened &amp; passed through a

sleeve finely mixed with glair.

Willow charcoal is excellent for sand for

b lead.

Latten runs better.

Frame casting

It is good to make it with boxwood. Turn it in order

to make it even, as this is important for the casting. Lute also,

or cover the mouth of the frame with sand in order that the melted

metal, or lead, or copper does not touch the

frame’s iron or latten, because it makes it

brittle, &amp; makes it porous. Also make sure that the cast is always

higher than the mold. Also guard against the cast being too

wide or too deep because the narrower, the better. For when it is big,

the weight of the substance that runs breaks &amp; shakes loose the

mold &amp; makes it porous. When you have cast, gently tap the

frame, in order that the substance spreads better. Black lead of

saulmon from the first melting makes a very neat one.

Heat of copper

It is hot enough when you see it neat &amp; even on top, without

filth.

Frame

Iron &amp; copper make it porous if the metal

touches it, &amp; the wood warps. Thus, make a mold of

wood, &amp; have frames of bricks made inside this mold of

whatever thickness that you want.

Glair of eggs

Glair of eggs gives strength to sand to make several

casts.

Clockmakers

To divide the teeth of their cogwheels proportionately, they do not

use a compass, for there is none so fine that it can

compass distances as small as those of the small

cogwheels. But they make a platform (as they call it)

of latten fais divided into several circles,

&amp; each circle is divided dinto equal distances marked by a

point, and each circle has a certain number of them, for example one 30,

another 36, another 40, &amp;c. Then, on the pierced center of the

platform, they set the small cogwheel there, and on the

center of the cogwheel a flat line or alidade which is moved to the

circle with the number that you want to mark on your cogwheel. Then they

mark a line on the cogwheel with a sharp point, then move the alidade

to the following point, &amp; continue to mark thus. And to mark the

points on the circles of their platform, they divide the

circle into three &amp; then divide this third part into as many

distances as is necessary with regard to the total division of the

circle, &amp; make in this manner their division &amp; distribution

of the teeth as fine as they please.

Clockmakers

In the past, they tempered their springs by dipping them

into molten lead. But today they temper their springs

straight, &amp; bend them once tempered, which is a

pa beautiful secret.

Casting lead in lead

There are some who make their hollow forms with thick lead, then

cast lead in them.

Lead when not cast hot enough, is white, &amp; blacker when cast

well hot.

One can make a lead mold, &amp; to cast in it, smoke

it with candle black. But it is never that neat.

Never does lead come so neat as tin.

Sand

If it is too fatty, one ought to reheat it and sieve it again.

Method of casting in bronze

Latten of potin cor, which is

the most brittle, molds more neatly, according to the opinion of many

people, than fine latten of pots, just like all fine

latten molds neater than red copper. If you want to cast

something fine &amp; thin, the entire secret is to cast as hot as

possible so that the substance boils. You will recognize that it is hot

enough when it smokes a lot and while stirring it throws sparks. To heat

well, place your crucible as low as possible &amp; at the very

bottom of the forge, so that the bellows

fra beat on the middle of the crucible, for

in this way it is better than on the grate on which one usually

puts the crucible, under which the bellows beat. It is

true that the crucible risks more danger breaking, but you can

lute it as you know founders do. And also, one ought

to maintain the charcoal between the bellows &amp; the

crucible. Also take heed to cast all at once &amp; not in

increments &amp; drop by drop, which would stop &amp; plug up the

conduit of the substance. And if you were to make in the cast a

trough to feed the medal, it would be even better. And in order

that the substance heats well at the bottom, stir it, once melted, with

a wood stick, for iron only makes it brittle.

Turn.

Some put wool stuffing in order to heat it &amp; make it

run.

Put under your crucible a thick iron

slab, which will redden &amp; will maintain the heat

under your crucible.

The copper substance is found to be good for casting, when once

broken it makes the grain long &amp; not short, for it demonstrates that

it is soft. It is half fine latten &amp; half

red copper. This long grain is called long stalk.

Sand  for lead

℞ grey soot from the furnace of the

silversmiths, quick lime, and

flour, ana, moistened according to the art, being the

finest possible.

The grey soot of locksmiths, which is held in the

forge, is very fine once ground, molds very neatly, &amp;

releases very well.

Sand for copper medals

℞ hat felt burnt on a covered

fire, dross of iron, &amp; burnt bone, all of which

ground very finely &amp; pestled &amp; watered with saltwater;

&amp; make a paste of it &amp; mold it, &amp; wipe it over a

straw fire.   These three sands, pulverized and very finely

ground on porphyry, mold well, and I think that

separately each of them is very good. Burnt hat felt molds very

neatly and releases very neatly.

Plaster molds very neatly but it becomes porous. Bone has

scarcely any body unless it has iron dross. Felt makes it

release.

Another sand

 Charcoal of vine shoots &amp; clay earth,

well cooked &amp; well

sieved, as much of one as the other, &amp; join them together

with well beaten glair of eggs, then calcine in the

furnace, &amp; to use it, temper it with vinegar.

Another for lead

℞ finely pestled slate &amp;

calcined pumice stone, mixed together. Calcine them in

a well covered pot, &amp; thrice stoppered over a good fire,

&amp; each time temper them with varnish.

Another

℞ p a  little-cooked tile,

ground &amp; tempered in white wine with burnt black

tracing paper, &amp; if you add burnt horse

dung, it will be all the better. Moisten with glair of egg.

Tracing paper burnt over a closed fire is reduced just as

charcoal &amp; very soft black, molds neatly &amp; makes it

release well mixed with the others.

Excellent sand

Alabaster calcined in a crucible over

charcoal fire, so that, touching it, it turns into powder. Once

cold, pulverize it finely &amp; pass it through a double sieve

&amp; render it as if impalpable. And d with one

lb of alabaster, one needs one

℥ of sal ammoniac. Mix well &amp;

incorporate everything together, then put them in a

cellar cellar or a damp

place. And with this paste, mold what you will need, &amp; next

dry the mold in the fire, &amp; cast whichever metal you wish, while

the sand is hot; &amp; you will cast as neatly as the principal, &amp;

the sand can still be used by placing it in a damp place

&amp; drying it in the fire.

A way for molding excellently with water

Dissolve in damp place some sandiver, and then

place this water on what you want to mold, having encircled it,

and place it to coagulate on the hot ashes. Do the same with

vitriol &amp; copperas, which, once well calcined, reduce

in water.

Molding in relief on one part and hollow on the other

It is necessary to cast two pieces of copper, latten or

similar metal, very neatly, and then when you have molded the

hollow form in the sand, leave the figure of metal that you

s have molded in the frame, without moving it

from its place. And cast, &amp; if there is not enough thickness press a

little &amp; push the figure down in the frame.

It is good to mold always the faces not on the side of the cast, but

with the head on the bottom, because the force of the substance is at

the entry of the medal, &amp; there, where the force is, the

filth &amp; grime accumulate. And, in this way, if you

were mold the face toward the cast, some grime could be found

there, &amp; it is better that is found on the clothing, which is easier

to repair.

Vinegar is better for moistening than wine. It is

necessary that the frame be quite smooth and even, otherwise

and that the cast be, as you press on one side, the other one

lifts.

This is why the press is better, for it tightens evenly, &amp;

more than your hands, and makes

the coarse sand, which is damp, communicate its humidity to the

soft &amp; fine sand, which is sprinkled &amp; pounced dry

on the medal.

When you mold, always leave your medal in one of

the frames, is without stirring

it because, if your hollow form is not molded very neatly, you can put

it back in the right place by means of pegs, which will prevent

it from shifting. But, at first, pounce your medal with very

fine willow charcoal, &amp; se next

clean it, for this degreases it, &amp; makes it easier to release afterward.

Do not knock it when molding because this will shake loose the

frame &amp; the sand.

Bellows

To melt with bellows, &amp; hasten your melt,

&amp; also cast hotter po, do not place your

bellows at the bottom near the foot of the furnace,

for fear that some charcoal might you enter it, put

them almost under the grate. It is good that your

four à vent be in an aerated place so that the

wind might make it heat better, &amp; that it be well dry,

&amp; reheat. One ought to plug the doors of the furnace

&amp; that there is only the entry of the blast-pipe of the

bellows. And by the end, you need to give it force,

as at the beginning you will blow gently.

Impromptu mask

Mold some paper &amp; put it on the face of somebody who is

making an ugly grimace. Let it dry &amp; take your pattern to paint from

it.

Eau magistra

Dissolve rock salt or salt finely

pulverized sandiver &amp; put on marble in a

cellar, &amp; it will dry out by reheating the mold,

&amp; will give it a bond to withstand several castings. Try to

moisten it with tartar oil.

Flour

Ground during Advent, keeps for the whole

year.

#&amp; swellings. It

is necessary that it not be too wet for the aforesaid reasons. Reheat

little by little. And if, after molding it, you leave it to

dry slowly, in some dry place &amp; not over a big fire, it

would be better, for when one exposes it all at once to intense heat, it

warps. I believe that reheating it at the mouth of the oven,

after the bread has been taken out, would be very proper. One

ought not to complain about the difficulty of preparing it, for it

withstands as many castings as you wish, because it renders itself as

hard as marble, &amp; you can polish it, &amp; the mold

cannot be spoiled. Once used, pestle &amp; sieve it again, yet

without being scrupulous to render it so fine,

I for having been passed only through a common

sieve, it has more force than and releases better, than

when it is so fine.

Sand from a mine in Thoulouse

The sand from Thoulouse, which is taken, from the

depths of the earth, from the small hill of Puy

David, is excellent in itself, but to make it withstand

several castings, I mix it with pulverized sandiver &amp;

moistened, which hardens it, &amp; takes body &amp; bond with it, &amp;

makes it withstand more than five as many castings as you

wish. Try to moisten the pestled glass and other

e sands with the waters of the aforesaid

salts. It wants to be, like all natural sand, well reheated

before putting it to use. One pulverizes it, because it is in lumps,

then one reheats it in a copper kettle or similar thing,

untill it no longer smokes

It is necessary to reheat it before using it. It is rendered better for

casting because it is reheated, but when it has been used a lot, one

ought to refresh it with new sand.

Sand

I tried the bone of oxen feet, thoroughly burned &amp;

pulverized &amp; ground on porphyry, until it is

not felt between your fingers. It molds on its

own very neatly. But because on its own it is very arid &amp; lean, it

wants to be well moistened &amp; dampened with wine boiled with

elm root.

Iron dross, well burned bone of oxen feet,

felt also well burned over a closed fire, and all three very well

ground on porphyry mold very neatly in lead,

without needing to be reheated a lot, &amp; casting

le in a hot or cold frame.

Felt alone molds very neatly once moistened &amp; releases

well, and also makes the other two release.

These sands only withstand one casting.

A fatty sand which is rendered very smooth, makes it porous.

A fatty metal needs lean sand.

Eau Magistra

Some people think that salt water is not good, because the

salt cracks in fire, &amp; consequently should make it porous. There is only the wine boiled with elm

root.

Charcoal for pouncing makes for a good release, but

one finds that the one of willow makes it porous. The one

of oak or beech does make it porous well without making it

porous.

Try burnt oysters.

Lead

For casting, there is only soft lead that wants to be cast

very g hot, and soft tin.

Sand for lead, the most excellent of all, for high and low

reliefs

 I took ceruse and crushed it dry on

porphyry to make it very fine, then I moistened so

much with well-beaten glair of egg that it was like a paste,

smoothing it perfectly with the dull side of a knife. I left it

a little

X

One ought to mix it well with a knife.

to rest on a very clean &amp; smooth table, &amp; since it

is desiccative, I knew it would dry out lor, which I

let it do in order to reduce it to powder &amp; to mold it with sand, broken up with my fingers &amp; the sharp edge of

a knife. I oiled my medal, because oil cleans it

without spoiling it. And And having dried it &amp; cleaned it

with a linen cloth &amp; very small hog bristle 

brushes, I once again lightly anointed it with clear

walnut oil &amp; gently passed a linen cloth

over it so that it does not remain too anointed, and I noted that,

by this means, it would come out better in release, because the

ceruse, once moistened with water of glair of egg, would not

attach to the oil. This worked very well and I molded a medal of

high relief very neatly, without any sticking, which a lot of

good sands, such as felt, burnt bone &amp; iron

dross, had failed to do on the first try. I reheated it &amp; my

mold became hard like marble, and by this I knew

that sands for molding high relief should be well moistened with some

water, which gives them body &amp; compactness, such as glair, 

gummed water, ea wine boiled

with elm root, &amp;c; and lightly oil the medal, it

withstands as many castings as you wish, for it is as hard as

glass. But even soft lead &amp; brittle tin

v want to be cast very hot.

Since then I have realized that this sand, even though it is

excellent &amp; endures many castings &amp; molds very neatly, nevertheless is fatty and makes things porous. Thus, soft lead and

the does not come out so well. But try to mix it with a lean

sand, such as pumice, scales &amp; similar things to

give them body &amp; so that they release better. For lean sands

barely release well and yet they receive metal well.

Try to mix ceruse or minium with other sands.

X

Oil &amp; anoint with aspic oil, which will go

away when reheating, for the oil makes it porous.

One ought to moisten with glair, then mix it well. And once in

the frame, beat on top with a pestle, or other

appropriate thing, for this makes it mold better and release better. 

It would be good to fill the frame all at once, for the

mixture that is made of several sands with that of the

mine, with which you fill the frame, corrupts

it.

Green varnish for medals of copper

Having cast them very neatly, cover them with sel de

verre that we use for sand &amp; moisten it, &amp; in three or

4 days it will be green. Next, oil them &amp; keep

them under the dung.

Glue

The Flemish reglue their earthen pots with

gold color, that is to say minium, massicot &amp;

varnish.

Founder

They mix beaten glair of egg with earth with which they make

the first layer of the cope of pieces, &amp; bells, &amp; all

other pieces, saying that the said glair makes it come out

d neatly, &amp; lays down &amp; settles the

substance. En noyau for a small work, glair is also

good.

Rosette, to come out neatly, wants the mold

to be a little hot, &amp; lead which has also been mixed with the

rosette, especially for small pieces.

Mortars

It is necessary that they be of the finest substance possible, such

as copper for cauldrons, which is better than

rosette, in order that it withstands the blow better.

Also the mortars for pestling are stronger &amp; less in

danger of breaking if they are of fine copper. And for a

private home, they do not ring so much &amp; do not

carry as much noise as those of

metal. It is true that those that are

of metal have more of a ring for the

apothecaries.

Grenades must be of fine metal.

Sand from the mine

It wants to be well reheated for great metals. Some burn it

in the furnace until it is very black and grind it finely on

porphyry. Others burn it with aspalte, but

when it is too burnt, it does not mold so neatly, because it does not

have body and is too lean. You can give it body with tripoli or

burnt felt.

Experimented sands

I have experimented with sand from

Thoulouse, &amp; after reheating it well

twice, in a skillet, I passed it through a fine sieve,

like the apothecaries’ double, without finely

grinding it further on the porphyry, as I have done

previously. I moistened it with wine boiled with elm

root and molded with it a large piece of a portrait of

Jesus. I found it easy to release, without having it to knock

on it, Jen &amp; molded neatly with one side in

relief &amp; on the other in hollow, &amp; of the thickness of a

coin of forty sous. I cast very hot

X

Sand from the mine, well chosen &amp; well reheated, is the most

excellent of all, without looking for any other mixtures, because it

receives all metals. It does not want to be used hot, because it

makes things porous. The most finely ground for big works is not the

best, because it does have enough body to sustain.

with the material of a skillet mixed with a knob that is

potin. And before that, I had so reheated my molded

frame, now with the flame of my furnace, now putting

lit charcoals on top of it, that it became as if red. I let it

cool and cast. It came out very neatly in relief on one side &amp; in

hollow on the other, as well for the figure as the letters. It is true

that the material was whitish, almost like metalline, but this was because

of the potin. I made another cast with only the material of

a skillet in the same sand, but not so reheated; it did not

come out well.

Since then I have molded the bone of oxen feet, burned,

pulverized &amp; sieved through a double sieve

&amp; hum fort moistened with

glair of egg or wine boiled with elm root. I knocked

on it moderately while molding. Having undone the opened the

frame, I found that the figures had not released neatly &amp;

left the molds floury &amp; crumbling. I

les moistened the bone sand further, so that

it gave a good hold in the between the

fingers, and in this way, I molded neatly with a good

release. And even though it seemed to me that the pulverized bone

was coarse, if there is some material of a skillet thrown in, my

figures came out very neatly. It is true that I had very very reheated

my frame; it withstood only one cast. I find that

when a sand is so finely grounded that it renders itself dense as

ceruse &amp; even, like without knowing it to be arid,

rarefied, sandy &amp; rather spongy, that it molds

very neatly, but it does not receive metal so well as if it were

porous to absorb the substance. But rather, once fatty &amp; even, it

becomes porous &amp; does not receive fine features. I believe that

the secret to cast well lies in finding a sand that receives the

metal well, one for lead, the other for another, for each

one has its particular one. Let it be molded slowly &amp; carefully, and

leave it for a few days to become compact by itself, if you have the

time for this. And next, reheat it very well, not all at once nor 

with a large fire, but little by little, otherwise it crumbles &amp;

always has some fault. Finally, you ought to cast copper or

latten or other great metals very hot &amp;, if it is

possible, in large quantities of substance, which contain more heat than

small quantities. It is necessary that the frame be cold, &amp;

that you cast all at once. Always lute the entrance of your

frame, for the metal, touching iron or

metal, 

This bone wants to be well pestled in a mortar and does

not want be reheated because it crumbles.

becomes porous. Most importantly, make it so that the cast is always

higher than the molded thing, because usually the sand, being reheated,

swells &amp; if the par ce in the middle,

&amp; in this way, the molded thing remaining higher than the cast, the

metal cannot run into it easily or enter at all. Also, make sure

that the mold &amp; the cast are well reheated. Cast also all

at once &amp; out of the wind. And if your medal is really

thin, put a card or two or three thicknesses of

paper underneath, when you want to mold it. In

this way the mold will be lower than the cast. Cast also at the

place where your medal will be more es the least

thick &amp; where there will be less relief.

Excellent sand for lead, tin, and

copper

D

Since then, I have molded with burnt bone, iron dross

&amp; burned felt, thoroughly pulverized &amp; ground finely on

marble and well mixed together. I moistened them very

well with beaten glair of egg. And having covered the medal with it,

as in the others, then filled the frame with sand from the

mine, I knocked moderately. I found it to be of very good

release &amp; molded very neatly. I let it sit an entire night. The next morning, I reheated

it little by little, over the course of seven or eight

hours (for if possible, no humidity ought to

remain in the frame). I cast twice in copper

alloyed with ☾, as old

K. The substance

turned out very beautiful, shiny &amp; sonorous, &amp; without a

crust, and my sand was not corrupted at all. Since then, I

have cast with it several casts of soft lead &amp; tin

that came out better &amp; more neatly than any other that I have ever

found.

When you mold, make certain lines around your mold, in the

frame, in order to attract the substance to all sides, in this

way.

Potin of syringe &amp; other

co works runs even better than fine latten.

But I think that it is better half copper &amp;

half latten, which have been used &amp; have been in

very thin works, such as skillets &amp; other similar things. I have

seen this mixture of half and half come out well.

To mold well, one ought to cast in a big frame several

medals together, for when there is a lot of substance &amp; the

crucible is almost full, it heats more, &amp; then, if one

medal does not come out well, the other will be good.

It is better to melt in a bellows furnace than in a

four à vent, because it gives a more vigorous heat. It

is true that latten melts well in the four à

vent, because it is easier to melt than copper, being

more brittle.

Some of the founders have this superstition,

that only three days a week are good for melting, namely

Tuesdays, Wednesdays

Thursdays, and Saturdays. The others, for them,

are unlucky.

When you mold, do not knock excessively on the medal, which is in

the sand, because it prevents it from releasing very neatly &amp;

shakes loose the mold.

Take heed also that the sand does not surpass the edges of the

frame, for it makes the molded medal higher than the cast,

&amp; in this way, metal will never enter the mold. Therefore,

always make sure that the surface of your cast object surpasses the mold in a straight line, and to do this, if it seems good to you, put a

piece of carton of whatever thickness you

please.

Founders, in order to prevent their large cast

works from becoming porous, are careful to reheat their molds very well. And

to know if they have been reheated sufficiently, they knock against it with

their finger, &amp; if they start to ring like a pot,

then they are sufficiently reheated.

To cast their cannons neatly, they mix their earth

with some fine casting sand, if they can find any.

Sand from Thoulouse

The usual bo good one is the one which is

found in a vineyard near Puy David, but the one

which is most excellent is the one is from the Touch, near

Sainct Michel &amp; toward Blagnac, in a

vineyard that is quite high up. The latter is thinner

&amp; a little fatter than the other, &amp; better for small works. It

does not want to be reheated too much.

Sand, slate, and burned earth

Thoroughly burnt sand loses its bond. Slate is reheated &amp; molds

neatly. Next, it is true that it often becomes porous, as burned

earth also does, as fatty sand also does.

I find that one ought not to knock on very finely ground sands, for it

shakes them loose &amp; make prevents them from releasing

neatly. But one ought to press hard and moisten them sufficiently.

Magistra

Founders take the roots of a young elm

when it is in sap &amp; boil it in wine, or better yet

vinegar, and keep it all year long in a

barrel.

Sand of the mine of Thoulouse

 Casting sand coming from the mine, once passed through a

double sieve, next put in with melted resin, burns &amp;

inflames &amp; becomes all red &amp; inflamed like iron. Once

cold, it is completely black and can be ground very finely on

porphyry. Having prepared it thus &amp; rendered it

without asperity on the fingernail, I moistened it

with beaten glair of egg &amp; beat it well, until it was not pasty

but rather powdery. I found it of very good release, &amp; molded with

it in lead &amp; tin very neatly, but it wants to be well

reheated &amp; at ease.

Others beat it well in a mortar, in small amounts at a

time, &amp; thus it is pressed together and rendered very fine. Then

they reheat it moderately, only to dry it. Next, they grind it dry on

porphyry. And thus it becomes as if impalpable and not

too dried out, it and it retains the body &amp; the bond of the

earth to which it is kin and is better than when it is so

burnt. Once moistened with glair of egg passed through a

sponge, it releases very neatly M very

neatly in low relief, but not for figures in high relief. Therefore,

since then, I have experimented lexper with

moistening it only with very strong vinegar. It released a

figure which I could not release previously. And I believe that,

moistening the finest in a fashion as with glair, &amp; the

coarsest, for filling, with gushes of salt water or

wine, that they do not join so well. But as they are of one

nature &amp; are moistened the same, they embrace each other &amp; hold

together one with the other.

To mold well, after having prepared your sands, mold in

a day. Slowly reheat them the next day, then cast them

on another.

One ought to choose the one which is as in clods

&amp; lumps, well deep in the earth, for usually the one that

is found higher up is too much a kin of the earth, and the lower is a kin of the rock.

I have molded it from pure lead cast very neatlyhot, &amp; I had as an example the very neat principal, but the

vinegar hardly gives it any bond, &amp; thus it sustained only

one cast.

Osier

It can be planted, like the bramble, on both sides, &amp;

those who plant the large feet against a slope say that it makes a

larger stump. But it only has a point at the top, for it grows

higher.

Mortars

Fine copper mortars do not throw fire, as long as

the iron pestle is not tempered. The

metal mortar does the same, because it is

sour. One makes, for this purpose, the bottom of large mortars

from fine copper.

Varnish

Turpentine oil, turpentine &amp; good eau-de-vie

to render it desiccative. Heat it without mixing on the chafing

dish, so that it mixes pu by itself when

melting. Next, test on a very clean knife, &amp; you will know

then if it has enough body &amp; if it does not run too much.

Grafting

One finds by experience that the graft that est

has its entrance into the incision on the sunny side takes very rarely

when it is also bent.

Baker

Dust keeps wheat from becoming infested with weevils. And to clean

it well when it is stained &amp; as if rusty, pass ashes through

the sieve &amp; mix them with the wheat, then

boult the whole with a boulting cloth of rough cloth or

canvas. The ashes will pass through &amp; your

wheat will stay yellow, clean &amp; very

beautiful.

Looking-glass tin

It makes the substance whiter.

Sand from pulverized rock salt and sand from the

mine finely ground on marble 

The one and the other, once very finely ground on

marble, after having thoroughly pestled them dry &amp; beaten

in the mortar, I mixed as much of one as the other, and having

reworked them together on porphyry &amp; passed them

through a double sieve or through the sleeve of a

shirt to mixs them even better, I put them in paper

&amp; put them on a marble in a cellar. In

one night, they had been moistened enough by

themselves without dampening them further, because rock salt, like

all other salts, dissolves in the damp. I molded very

neatly with it, because both were very finely ground. They want to be

f humid enough to release well.

Mineral sand

It does not matter if the color is white or yellow. Above all it

must be in one piece &amp; as if taken from a quarry or

rock formation, &amp; the deeper one takes it from, the

better. The signs of its goodness are that it is thus amassed, and that

when removing itself in the form of rock, it comes out in lumps &amp;

qu bricks, which demonstrate its bond &amp; that it

is not too lean.

However, it should break apart between your

hands &amp; have very small

men &amp; delicate grains &amp; of the same nature.

If it is not delicate enough, you can pass &amp; grind it finely, either

through water or through a sieve &amp; when

it or on the porphyry, &amp; in this way, from

sil lean they become fatty &amp; well bound. You

can mold with it in sa frame or

en noyau without cloth waste, &amp; try it with

lead, for if with this it does not become porous &amp; casts

neatly, it will also behave well with copper. Some say that the

fatty sands do not want the metal to be cast too hot.

Artisans who work in large works &amp;, who for profit, do not

need to grind &amp; seek the curiosities of artificial sands,

benefit more from seeking some that is ready-made by nature, which has the

finest grain possible, &amp; for small works, they only pass it

through a sieve. But those who work in small works, finely

grind it &amp; grind it impalpable, because they do not need a lot of

it.

Orberé grain makes a tawny powder, very

delicate &amp; very soft, which, once mixed, could mix mold

very neatly. Try wheat flour burned over a closed

fire.

Sand of burnt ox bones and rock salt

I have pulverized them separately &amp; finely ground them on

porphyry, as much as I could. Then I mixed as much

of one as the other &amp; reworked them on

porphyry. Next, I moistened it in paper,

folded in a wet napkin, which is previously made in the

serain of the night or in the

moisture of the cellar. And I have not found anything else

which releases more neatly than this one. It wants to be rather humid.

And if you want to cast very thin, make sure it is very hot. It came out

very neatly in soft tin, like the principal, and withstood

several casts. For tin, I believe that it is not necessary to

seek a better one, nor for fine lead either, which comes out almost

as neatly as tin. Tou The bone of the foot

of oxen is always so lean on its own that, without being

mixed with one or two parts of some fatty sand &amp; one that has bond,

such as tripoli, salts, felt, ashes &amp;

similar things, it would not release &amp; would not mold neatly, for it

crumbles.

Reheating or drying a molded frame

Always put the most delicate part, such as the face, above, so that

nothing falls in it that could hinder your fusion.

Natural sand

It does not want to be reheated for lead and tin,

m and is better very new &amp; fresh.

Sal ammoniac and alabaster

 Sal ammoniac, well pulverized mou &amp;

ground dry on marble, molds very neatly &amp; is of a very beautiful release, &amp; once mixed with alabaster, pulverized

similarly, ii ℥ per lb of

alabaster makes it release well. It suffices to moisten it in

a cave or in the serain or, to

be done more quickly, in a piece of paper between a wet

napkin. Take heed that it does not stay for too long, for it

would become so wet that it would not be good for molding

in a frame, but rather en noyau, in which you will be

able to use it well as long as it dries well at ease &amp; far from the

fire. Otherwise the heat makes it swell &amp; pushes the salt onto

the surface, which renders it lumpy. You can in anoint the

medal with spike lavender oil, molding 

en noyau. It is better to put in 4 ℥ of

sal ammoniac per lb, and moisten it in a damp

place for two or three days, &amp; so that

when you take fistfuls, it holds together, without, however,

attaching itself &amp; being pasted to your hand. You

will mold very neatly with it. But let it dry &amp; reheat very thoroughly,

leaving the mold inside so that it acquires strength by

reheating, for it becomes hard as stone &amp;, in this way, is

more certain to release well. Otherwise if you release before having

reheated it, there would be danger of it crumbling in some place

because of its delicateness &amp; fineness, even if the medal has a high

relief. Once you have molded with it, pulverize it as before and put it

back in the damp.

All sand that releases well has body &amp; gives a good hold. Ammoniac

is fatty and a va is nevertheless sandy,

which makes it release well. There is no better bond than salts

appropriate for metals, for once mixed in powder, they get moistened

together &amp; dry &amp; reheat together.

Glassmakers’ white sand from the

mine, mixed with sal ammoniac

There is found in Cominge, near the town of

Aurignac, a sand white mai like

salt and lean, that glassmakers &amp;

potters use, which becomes impalpable ground on

porphyry &amp; is easy to grind. And once ground, it

resembles calcined alabaster. It molds very neatly, and I have

not found any that molds as delicately as this one for lowf relief. It is

excellent to mold en noyau without a frame, having ground it

impalpable with gummed or pure water on porphyry,

then placing it, thick as mustard or a little more, on the medal,

anointed lightly with oil either of olive, walnut, or even

better spike lavender. But to do it better

mo, let it dry by itself, without fire, for one or

two days. Although, if you are in a hurry, you can

heat it well, &amp; it will not crack if it is not put on too lightly.

It is true, being thus suddenly exposed to heat all at once, it makes

some holes &amp; pustules, which it does not do when dried in the cold or

at ease rather than being reheated. Once dry, reheat it &amp; it will

withstand several casts.

Sal ammoniac and iron dross

I have pulverized sal ammoniac, dried well in the fire &amp;

in a hot bronze mortar, and passed it through the

double sieve; it became very fine. But to render it even more

delicate, I have ground it dry on porphyry. Then, I mixed

it with pulverized &amp; finely ground iron dross, in the same

way, and both mold very neatly things in low relief without being

moistened in the serain, or in the

cellar, or otherwise with the napkin, &amp; it

releases very neatly.

Sand

Molders from Foix who cast theireu 

medals crosswise, use crocum ferri 

and calcined slate. It is for very flat things.

That any sand can be rendered good

Artisans who work in large works &amp; who need to further

their profit by seeking things already prepared in nature, because she

does not sell her wares to her children, and to also save the time they would

use for grinding finely &amp; for artificially preparing sands, seek

the one of the s mines,

which is not too fatty, the one that is a kin of earth, not too lean &amp;

consequently without bond, but rather that which is pulled from the

depths of the sand-bed in bricks &amp; clods that show

its natural compaction, which is quite difficult to break &amp; which

has a very small &amp; delicate grain, &amp; which is found soft

when handling it between the fingers. And

because the latter is only found near the rocks in mountainous

areas or lean territories, &amp; akin to the 

arene, it cannot be found in in the

surroundings of all the bonnes villes where

artisans willingly gather. And thus, if they do

not have it close to their house, they prefer to have it come

from afar, like from Lyon, Venice, Paris near the

Sainct Chappelle &amp; similar places, rather than prepare it.

However, you can be certain that in all places you can render the

sand from a mine

good &amp; proper for molding. For if it is coarse, pass it through a

sieve, and if it is not yet fine enough, wash it, &amp; when

the water has rested a little, empty that which is still

troubled in some separate vessel. The coarse will promptly 

fall down to the bottom of the first vessel, but the one which

will have come from the troubled water, set apart, having

settled, will be very fine. And then, if it does not have enough

bond, grind it quite dry on porphyry, &amp; you will

render it impalpable, &amp; which will have bond like chalk.

Then, if it seems right to you, you will reheat it &amp; again will grind it &amp; mix it with salts, or linen, or burnt

felt, or ashes of paper &amp; similarly washed things.

Terre fondue of potters

Grind it in a mortar mustard

mill with some water &amp; render it impalpable,

dry it &amp; next moisten it with salt water, which gives

strength to u all sands to withstand several

casts.

Orange trees

In Italy, those who are in the colder regions, like

Lombardy, make square wooden cases, a little larger at

the bottom than at the top, and  affix buckles on its

sides for transporting them with straps, as one carries gout

sufferers, because the wheels with which one could make them roll spoil

the pathways of the gardens. And every two

years, they do not forget to open the sides of the

cases for trimming &amp; dexterously cutting, with the soil,

the ends of the orange tree’s roots, because otherwise, as they

find the wood, they contract &amp; fold back on themselves &amp; dry at

the tips &amp; would make the tree die. But as they are trimmed, it

preserves for them new space cosfor expanding,

without finding resistance from the wood that hinders them. And know

that, for this effect, it would be better to join the sides of the

cases with screws &amp; not with nails, in

order to not shake the soil when one opens them.

Grafting

With any tree that has coarser marrow, the graft is awkward

to estre cut well, because there is a

danger of wounding the marrow, &amp; if it is wounded at the point of

juncture, it takes uneasily, like from the vine, from all

peaches &amp; apricots.

Apricot trees have a very thin bark, &amp; thus one needs

to graft them onto young trees which do not yet have thick bark, like on

shoots of prune trees &amp; almond trees.

The grafts scarcely  take if the cut of the tree is

damp. One needs then to graft in serain &amp; mild

weather, &amp; not too cold &amp; windy.

Old wood that one leaves to the graft is necessary if one grafts on a

tree that is already made &amp; of good size, because being such, it

tightens the graft more, &amp; if it is from young wood, it is so

compressed that it cannot profit. But old wood resists the compression

of old wood than the young better, because it is harder than

the young. But if the graft is all of old wood, it will never hold

beautifully, but turns fragile &amp; short &amp; slow to

grow.

Molding with cuttlefish bone

Guard against keeping them in a damp place, for they are

very prone to getting moist. If your medal is small, cut the bone

in two, then even it out with a knife. And on a hooked

rooftile, quite dry &amp; quite smoothed &amp; covered with

pulverized willow charcoal, rub &amp; smooth the two

halves of the bones. Thus they imbibe this willow

charcoal, which makes them release well &amp; guards against removing

anything. Then, on a counter bone, that is to say a piece of

brick evened to the size of your bone, place

your medal, &amp; then on this one, place the bone,

&amp; press well with some other piece of the same size on the top. And for

the second time, mold it, but before, pounce on top with

willow charcoal &amp; blow lightly, then press as before,

and it will come out neatly. If it is for a spoon handle, one needs two

whole bones. All cast work is brittle &amp; subject to

breaking, because the metal expands when cast, &amp; retracts

&amp; condenses under the hammer. That is why one ought to

retrace the cast thing with a chisel, &amp; in this way the

metal retracts. Let it thus escrouir. If the piece

for molding is of high relief, first trace the mold &amp; hollow it

with a penknife to make way for the medal, &amp; then

mold. And if the medal has two sides

Before casting, heat the

bones in order to make them lose only the coldness &amp;

dampness.

When the lead gets too hot, it

calcines.

since the two bones are joined,

co cut them evenly all around, &amp; make notches

e around it in different places which cross over the

join of the two bones, in order to recognize well the

place of the first join. Or else, with little shards of

wood, pierce them, or ma coat the

joins with some clay, &amp; dry. Press, between them

your hands joined between your two knees

&amp; not with a press, because the bones would

crack. Mold also at your leisure &amp; two or three times, until you see

that it is pressed quite tightly together &amp; well imprinted. And each

time before replacing the piece, pounce with some

willow charcoal, for it makes it release well. When you

have cast, rub the medal with oil &amp; with willow

charcoal powder &amp; with a brush, to make it dull. Take care that your medal is not too greasy or oily when you mold in

cuttlefish bone. When you have cast, leave it

to cool before taking the medal out, for when one takes it out hot, it

brings with it some bone. And cast moderately hot,

which you will know when the bone is about to change

its good whiteness. But when it is too hot, it turns

the bone very red. The proportion of lead

&amp; tin is as much of one as of the other. If the piece is difficult

to come out &amp; of several pieces, make the gate forked with three or

four grooves, and make &amp; direct these grooves to the

place of the thicker parts. Also make these grooves around the medal, like straight on the heads, for this attracts the metal &amp; feeds

the figure better. Shake your frame a little when you have cast,

and thus you will make very neatly several casts. Tin that is too

hot pburns the bone, which is corrupted. Also, once taken

out du mo hot from the mold, it risks

breaking.

Sand Mixture easy to melt

One ℥ de part

soft tin, one part fine lead, one part

looking-glass tin &amp; one part fixed quicksilver makes an alloy &amp; a

solder so easy to melt that it can easily be melted in a

dish of fine tin.

Molding hollow on one side and in relief on the other

And for this effect, one casts a medal of fine tin, which is

harder to melt. And since it is neat, one molds with it. And one leaves

it in one half of the frame &amp; presses it a little so that

it holds better. And next, you will cast in your frame some

solder described above, or another more meltable than fine

tin. And thus, the second medal will melt &amp; mold itself on the

first one without spoiling it. But to make sure this is done right, mix

some lamp black with water &amp;, with a

paintbrush, give a light coat of this to the medal, which

remains in the frame, &amp; leave to dry. Thus it will not

melt.

But if you have a medal of copper or silver, you can

leave it in the cast if you want to cast with lead or

tin. But it is necessary that it be a little hot, for the cold

would make the tin contract.

Tin wants to be cast quite hot to come out neat.

Soft tin, which is the best for the cast, is the

one that, once cast in grille, is burnished

&amp; shiny &amp; polished like a mirror, &amp; appears to have

been burnished. And does not have holes like the one that is brittle &amp;

that is not shiny as if burnished.

Potin

Potin, being cast hot, runs &amp; flows like tin. But

the medal becomes whitish from this, and immediately casts out the

verd, which a good material does not

do.

Molding statues

Half founder’s earth which

founders use &amp; half clay earth

g renders very neatly.

Sand from river tellins and

mussels

The long shells that one finds in fresh

water rivers, once calcined, make an impalpable white sand, which

molds very neatly.

Congealing mercury

It congeals, just as I tried, by boiling it one or two

hours in a rather large iron pot,

putting in, for an ℥ of

☿, ii ℥ of

verdet de and vitriol of

saltpeter, ana, with sufficient quantity of old

water from farriers.

Or else, melt 4 ℥ of tin, &amp; as

it cools, purify it of its filth, which is on top, then, make a

hole in it &amp; put in this i ℥ of

☿ &amp; it will come out like tin if you

remelt it, but it will be breakable. And if you want to assay if it is

tin or ☿, redden a shovel &amp;

put a small piece of your ingot on top. If it is tin, it will melt

&amp; stay, but if it is ☿, will quickly melt,

then, crackling quite strongly, it will evaporate. One ought to congeal it in

a spoon or in a hollow crucible &amp; make a

moderately sized hole.

It can also be congealed, as I assayed, in aquafortis which beforehand will have eaten a little silver.

This one, mixed, makes tin &amp; lead run.

Mixture

Fine tin, congealed mercury with the smell of

tin, looking-glass tin, fine lead, as much of

one as the other, makes a substance that melts very promptly but is

breakable &amp; white. I think that it would be good for solder.

A long time to cool.

Olives

They are spoiled if once a month one does not

refresh their salt water, which one ought not to touch

with the hands, for this makes them spoil.

Observation from rustics

That when it freezes on Palm Sunday, it

freezes all the months of the year.

That when the first flowers fall les suiv &amp;

are lost from the frost, the others are usually lost

also.

Grafts

It is necessary that the graft be not from old wood, for it is never

a beautiful tree.

One needs to leave only two shoots at maximum on the graft, for when

it has more, its strength is weakened. The wind torments it, &amp; it

does not have enough strength to bud.

Trees which have coarse marrow, like peach trees &amp; all

their kind &amp; plum trees, do not want grafts in

freezing weather because the cold damages their marrow, which one

also needs to protect from wounding by cutting the foot of the

graft.

All grafts must not be made earlier than their tree is sapping,

for the humor grows them quickly. Otherwise

au, they dry before the humor of

the sap pushes them.

Sand

The white ash of all woods, which still sticks to the

wood that burns, and which has not fallen into the

bo hearth, molds very

neatly.

Sand

 Ashes Well pulverized tallow molds &amp;

releases very neatly. The one from the kitchens, which is fatty

&amp; shiny, from the big kitchens, is better.

Finely pulverized quicklime works. The same for broken-up

flint, which works better in the cavity.

Faces in distemper

Because colors in distemper dry promptly &amp; one would not

have leisure to perfect the shadows &amp; touches on the face, one wets

the reverse of the face which is on canvas with a wet

sponge. Then, with a small paintbrush, one makes

the shadows, which do not come undone. Next, one lays the flesh color,

which does not prevent the already painted shadows from appearing. And

again with a more lively flesh color, one touches the more prominent

areas. And with another paintbrush, one does the shadows

again by hatching. The shadow strokes do not come undone

because they are made of bistre, which stains the canvas

like rust. The said bistre is good with for

making shadows in distemper mix, for in oil it

has no body &amp; would not dry but with great difficulty. One mixes in

the said bistre, for shadow, ocre de ru &amp; a

little sap green. The best bistre is the greasy &amp;

shiny kind from the fireplaces of large kitchens. It is

difficult to grind &amp; screeches on the marble.

Azure

Azur d’esmail always wants to be cleaned, because the

filth that can be perceived in the wash water makes it die. One needs

to layer it two times, &amp; the first very thick, moving the

paintbrush by layering it first lengthwise then across.

     It is better used on canvas, where it is imbibed

immediately, than on wood. Varnish returns it to its

vigor, because being imbibed, it becomes dark. To try it,

painters bring their palette to the

grocers, &amp; temper &amp; alloy it with a little white

ground in oil, for in this way, the beautiful shows its

turquine vivacity, but the bad is lavender grey. The most

delicate is the best for working. It is thinned working by

washing it.

Violet and lake

It is made of azure &amp; lake, which is also assayed

on the palette with white. The one is deemed beautiful that, on a polished knife or on glass, 

givesu a

clear red color of red rose, tending a little toward violet.

The one that is blac dark red is not as pleasant.

Furbisher

The parts of a sword are the rivet,

the tail of the sword, what comes next is the ricasso, the rest is

the cblade. The sides are the edge

&amp; the point. Some blades have a sharp ridger,

which has one single elevated ridge in the middle &amp; along the whole

length, and are easy to break. The other

blades are called of three edges or three slopes, which do have

a rise in the middle, but it is flat as if it were a sharp ridge, but

flattened, and s these

ones are the safest. The others are are called fluted, which

are notched in the middle, &amp; when it is

along the whole length, they are just as easy to break as those with

sharp ridges &amp; are more troublesome to furbish because the

fustée cannot get in. But one makes one in particular which is

narrow.

Of the guard of the sword are the

pommel, the branches of the guard &amp; the

pontet, which is this

iron strip which closes off the branch which is at the end of the

ricasso to stop thrusts from sliding into the guard. The

rings are these two branches in

half-round which start from the eye of the

guard up to the branch of the pontet. The branch that crosses

the guard is called the body. And this

quillon block, by which the sword

tail enters and to which all the branches

return &amp; are held, is called the eye of the guard.

Then follows the wood of the grip, which one glues, or

according to the most competent, with gummed wax, which is of

wax &amp; pitch, because rosin would be too hard.

They heat it lightly, then rub the wood of the grip with it in

order that the tang or the thread takes hold there. Otherwise, if a

thread were to come loose, it would all d

break immediately. On iron wire or dog

skin, one also puts glue on

it. The garnishment of which is put on the wood

of, which is of silk or thread, is called the

cord, which is made from two thr or three

threads turned twisted on the spinning wheel,

or 4 if the silk is thin. The slightly thicker cord holds better.

The binding, which is also made of silk at both ends of the

handle, are called the

buttons.

Some grips are made of silk, dogfish

skin, annealed iron wire,

threads of gold &amp; of fine &amp; false silver &amp; of

velvet. Iron wire has a lower price &amp; is the most

durable. Next is the grip of silk, if one does not have the

convenience of being close to the sea to procure some

dog skin, which is quite

convenient. To The beautiful skin costs fifty or lx

sous &amp; 4 or five dozen grips are

made from it. This kind gives a good grip even if the hand is

sweating. To work it, if it is too hard, one soaks it for one

or two hours in not quite lukewarm

aquafortis, for if it were too hot, it would cook &amp; spoil the

skin. It is sewn with black thread.

    

The gold grips are made by putting underneath thin yellow

canvas or a different canvas yellowed with chalk. And this

canvas is set with glue or the aforesaid gum, this

is in order that the thread holds better on it. These are made of

cords like the silk ones, &amp; between two cords one sets one or

two threads to make it show up better. The silver kind is

made similarly, and there is not as much trouble as with silk,

and even less because it takes more to twist silk, because one

needs to twist it twice. A grip of fine gold is worth 18 or 20

sous.

The best sword point is the sage leaf form.

This long plank on which the sword is attached &amp; laid down to

furbish it is called the

chameau, it is

commonly of rowan, which is

hard &amp; even.

The lower stick, which is folded like a bow, is called the

arson.

The upper is called the stick of the

fustée.

And this small square piece, which is put

lon the sword to burnish it, is called the

fustée.

There are two horns: one is called the oil horn and

the other the emery horn.

There is an iron which is made like a halberd point,

square, &amp; of very even steel, &amp; well filed,

which is called the

grateau, which

serves to to soften the traces of the

file on sword guards &amp; to give an edge to swords after they

have been ground, which is better than with a stone or a

sharpening stone, which quite often makes scratches.

To make coupp swords cut better, one gives them

the edge by pulling upward from the point.

Those who create sword guards are artisans

separate from the furbisher.

 A is the

bruisson

B is the bloodstone

The fustée is a square piece of wood

three fingers in thickness, of

boxwood, which is fitted in the middle of the stick

of the fustée to furbish.

The fresil stick is of willow

wood, which is to clean the rust off weapons with

fresil, which is the iron scale falling

at the farriers’ forge.

scabbard bench

    

    a

    b   

        

        

    

D

the baston

a felinder

        

    

c

the flin or thunder

stone

The furbisher buys his blades by the dozen, which

are not fully drawn by the tang because he does this himself to adjust

them well to the l pommel &amp; guards.

Spanish ones are deemed better for being of better steel

&amp; iron, but they are not as well-forged as swords from

Vienne in pro Dauphiné. The

Spanish ones are not as well ground coming from the

forge, because they grind them with the

foot, &amp; this is what

makes them wavy.

Blades from Vienne commonly cost xviii or 19

lb a dozen.

The first thing the furbisher does when he gets his new

blades is to draw out their tang, which he does himself or has done by

locksmiths or farriers, giving him some

liard for his charcoal. Next, they

pass it over a grindstone to make it

cut, then lay it down on the

chameau, and with some pulverized

emery, fine &amp; soft as flour, &amp; mixed with oil

to make it hold, they furbish the sword with the stick used to

remove the traces of the grindstone, and then the

clean the sword powell with the

emery and give it a drop or two of oil, which

they spread with the finger to give it luster. Having

put the oil, they furbish the sword again on the

chameau with the

felin, which is a

thunderstone mounted in the middle of a stick like the

fustée, and this stick is called the baton à

felinder. Next, having passed it on the

felin, they furbish it with chalk &amp;

the oil which is on the sword. Next, they wipe it &amp; go over

it again, &amp; furbish with dry chalk. And at the end, when they

are ready mounted, one gives them the edge with the

gratteau.

Ai

Once furbished, one mounts it on the guards which one presents to

know if they are quite suitable. And taking hold of a blade such that

the whole ricasso is held in the hand, one conjectures

that it will be just as heavy once mounted.

One puts the blade in a vise between two pieces of

wood, then with a file, they enlarge the opening of the

guard if it is necessary. Then, to rivet it,

one places on the rivet a piece of

&amp; the pommel a piece of wood, &amp; with a hammer,

one beats on it to align &amp; secure the pommel well. Then, with the

hammer, one finishes the rivet when the pommel is well secured

&amp; does not wobble. The wood is put there so as not to spoil

the pommel. Next, one finishes the rivet with a file or

chisel. And some make the b the rivet in a

square diamond-shape, but it is not as good

as the round one, for, when faceted, the rivet breaks.

The end is bought ready-made by the

dozen, which costs six sous for

the small ones, but for the the big ones 2

carolus. The end this is put either

with nails, which are put on the sides of the cutting edge, but

this only spoils the sword &amp; destroys the scabbard because the

water enters through the joint of the nail. It is best to

apply some rosin or glue on it, but rosin is better.

And it is best when the end is well adjusted &amp; set so hot that the

pulverized rosin melts on the end. In this way, it does not fall

and cannot be undone unless it is put in the fire.

Guards are of several kinds:

Worked

Guttered, which is with round moldings

Pearled

Scarfed, when the bands are crosswise

Onioned, which is with a flat head

In the King’s manner, which are plain

The furbishers buy them by dozens, the

dozen of plain ones commonly costs x lb. The

worked piece, 30 sous or depending on its

fashion.

The first thing the apprentice does is to furbish as

said.

And next, to garnish the sword &amp; make a scabbard, which is the

height of the art.

They buy the wood pieces of

beech wood for scabbards which are ready made, a hundred for xv or xx or 30

sous, depending on the distance from the place

where they are made.

These wood pieces are thus called

estelles, and have to be

very neat &amp; without any knots &amp; are one finger’s

thickness across.

Then the furbisher puts them on a small bench, called a

scabbard bench, and with a e

g plane small iron

tool similar to that of the joiners’ bench,

they make it hold firmly. Then, with ae plane

plane which is like a knife with two

handles, one works the wood

roughly from the top, next one passes the joiner’s

plane on it the better to even it. Next, one scours it on the

inside with a

round plane, also mounted with two handles, then with a

small narrow plane, one hollows &amp; scrapes it half a

foot toward the end of the

talan, and the shorter the better.

Without this scraping, the sword would always cut the scabbard.

The opening of the scabbard is called the mouth, &amp; on top is the

shape of the blade.

The stop, which is a leather rim set on the edge of the blade

shape, is made to stop the hangers.

When the estelles are well levelled, one lays the sword on top,

&amp; with a black stone, one marks the width of the

blade &amp; the length, &amp; then with a chisel, one cuts the

excess. And one passes a joiner’s plane to even it

well, according to the mark.

Next, one glues the two estoilles edge to edge and all

around, only as far as the shape of the blade extends &amp; not

elsewhere. And this is to make the leather or velvet of

the scabbard hold.

Then one puts the sword into the estelles. And precisely thus,

they set it in the scabbard, which is all sewn, and rub what is

glued along the shape of the blade

with tallow to make it run into the scabbard.

The scabbard is made of calf or sheep leather,

the calf ones are all in one piece, but not the sheep

ones. But, when the swords are long, one makes them in pieces which are

sewn between leather &amp; flesh, &amp; then they rub the

stitching thoroughly with a piece of boxwood to

cover &amp; even it. From a good calf skin, viii or 9 or

x scabbards can be taken. A

workman can easily make vi a day. If they

are too thick, one thins them a little with a plane. If the

skin is hard, one wets it in lightly lukewarm water, and

one does not leave it there for long. Next, the same

worker who made the wood piece has to adjust the

scabbard to be well made. It is true that for common people,

one may well get ones which are ready made, but they are never carried

as well. When the scabbard is made &amp; sewn with black thread,

one rubs it with a piece of boxwood or with a

cloth, having daubed it a little in oil. The scabbard of

a good cow is better than any and also costs more, except the

velvet kind. Under the velvet, one commonly puts plain

canvas or a sheep scabbard or a parchment cover. But

the best scabbard of all is a waxed scabbard, of either

velvet or calf. It is because one covers the wood

with thin canvas, which one next waxes, then one covers it

in velvet or calf. A waxed scabbard is worth at

least xxx sous, a cow one xx

sous.

From a sheep skin, v or vi.

Grey guards

Once they are white, one only needs to clean we them

well, then put them in the fire, &amp; make them pass to blue. And one

needs to take good care that they do not pass too far beyond blue, for

neither gold nor silver nor any color would take on it. To do this,

which is called making them pass, one takes

a cauldron full of ashes, which one covers with

thoroughly lit charcoal, &amp; thus one heats them quite strongly for an

hour or two, and when the ashes are very hot,

one pulls the charcoal to one side &amp; one puts the guard where the

charcoal was, &amp; one covers it completely with ashes. And when

the body of the guard, which is the main thing, is completely passed,

one rotates the guard onto the other side, and in this manner, the grey

cannot pass too much, unless some hot charcoal touches it. The

grey can be done well in the ordinary fire in the

fireplace, but there is a danger that it may pass too much &amp;

produce filth, which will prevent it from taking color. Blue is

obtained as soon as the ash has heated the guards a little, but

it is still grey in some places. After blue comes grey.

Color of water

For the color of water, one passes a soft file

on the guards to whiten them, then the burnisher. Next, one

makes them pass to blue until they turn grey. Next, when they are still

moderately hot, one passes the bloodstone over them, and when

they cool, one turns them to reheat them, for the color of water is made

only in several passes. And if the guards were not warm, the

bloodstone would scrape &amp; undo the color. One needs to take

heed that the guards do not pass too far beyond grey, for they would throw

off filth that would prevent the color from taking. One needs almost one

day for preparing, softening &amp; setting the

color of water, but as they pass a little beyond blue, it is enough for

grey &amp; another color. Grey is the lesser color after varnish,

which is of two colors, either yellow or black.

Yellow varnish

One whitens very strongly &amp; one cleans the guards well. Next,

one applies walnut olive oil all

over them with a feather while they are cold, and next turns them over a good charcoal fire that is on the

furbishers’ furnace, without them touching the

charcoal or the ash. And when they do not smoke anymore,

it is done.

Black varnish

It is said, at the beginning of the book

where you can see it, that it is made with galipot.

Gilding

One prepares the guards thoroughly with a soft, very soft, file such that there is nothing black left on any of the guards, and next heats them,

&amp; passes them as is said. But to gild

&amp; gild with silver, they ought not to pass more than a little

beyond blue. Then, while the guards are hot, one attaches them to a vise,

&amp; with some tweezers, one layers the gold, &amp; one

sets it with bloodstone that is quite clean &amp; rubbed with

putty. And when the guards are cold, one reheats them,

then one layers the gold as above. And first, one gives

of two layers, until the entire guard is well-garnished. And

next, one reheats as at the beginning, &amp; one gives the third covering

of gold. Then, one burnishes very thoroughly &amp; with great

force with a large bloodstone. And But note that

to burnish well, the guard always needs to be warm. And to

know this, one smells it &amp; brings it close to the

nose. For one ought not to touch it with the

fingers, but one holds it on lifts it from on top of

the warm ashes with a small iron rod, which has

been purposely made to go into the eye of the guard. And when it is

completely well-burnished, one rubs it very well with a white

linen cloth, and the gold needs to be thicker &amp;

stronger than for painters. A quarteron is worth

fifty or lx sous.

Gilding with silver

One needs to prepare the guards &amp; whiten them with a 

li file, a little coarser

for than for gold. And one makes them pass beyond

grey, as for gilding. And when they are hot, one needs to double the

silver foil, then separate it with a knife; next, apply

it to the guard with a small tweezers

&amp; a small burnisher. And then, reheat &amp; apply until they

are all gilt with silver. Next, one needs to cover them for the

third time with the doubled foil, as has been said, then burnish them

very well &amp; with force, not with the bloodstone but with a

strong burnisher. Just as the burnisher ought not to

burnish gold.

Mastic varnish dry in a half

hour

Some take 2 ℥ of mastic, a half ℥ of turpentine, &amp; a half ℥ of

turpentine oil, &amp; eau-de-vie, a little at your discretion 

because it evaporates when heated &amp; nonetheless makes the varnish more desiccative. But I made

it thus: I take turpentine oil at discretion &amp; put in a good

bit of turpentine, because it remains always moist &amp; attaches

itself if one puts in too much, &amp; eau-de-vie, &amp; heat in a

varnished bowl the said oil, &amp; when it begins to be

very hot, I put in some subtly ground mastic &amp; around

one-third of the oil passed through a sieve

l, and let reheat until it is melted, which will be soon on

hot ashes. Once all melted, try it on the knife, and if

you see that it has too much body, add in a little turpentine

oil, and if it does not have enough, add in mastic, and thus

it will be done. And keep it well covered so that no filth gets in. When

you want to make it, be careful to sort &amp; choose the mastic

that is white &amp; purified of any dirt &amp; dust &amp; black dross.

And when you wash it &amp; dry it to render it very white &amp; clean,

it will be even better. For if you do not purge it well, these

straws &amp; marks, pulverized into it, will remain

within the varnish, &amp; when you set it on white or flesh color,

it will seem that they are fleas &amp; blemishes. Once well

chosen, pulverize it in a mortar and pass it through a very

fine sieve, and next mix it in oil, as is said. But if you

want to make it more carefully, extract a tear of mastic, as you

know, pulverize, pass, &amp; mix, and you will have something very

singular for small works. Take heed when varnishing not to breathe on

it, for this will make the varnish whiten &amp; take body.

It almost dries when working.

One knows that this varnish does not have body enough when it

does not take well on a panel in oil, for it is like water.

Therefore, add in pulverized mastic &amp; heat until it is good.

This varnish is very white &amp; beautiful, &amp; does not go to

your head like that of spike lavender.

For some, instead of tour turpentine oil, put

spike lavender oil, which is not as good.

This varnish is laid down cold on the panel with a very clean

fingertip, &amp; one needs to spread it

vigorously.

The Italians scarcely varnish their paintings because they layer

their paintings very thick, &amp; they are a long time drying

on the inside, though on top they make a dry skin &amp; crust.

One lays the varnish with a finger so as make a

lean layer, because when thick, it yellows.

Working on glass

It is a strange thing that the workers of this art cannot

work well if they do not have good breath, for if they have a

bad one, their work will break in the fire in reheating.

Varnish for lutes

They take a little turpentine, &amp; oil of turpentine or

of spike lavender, &amp; amber pulverized &amp;

passed very subtly, &amp; make like that of mastic, &amp; add in a little dragon’s bloodto

color it and make it reddish,

and others some terra merita for yellow.

Borders of a garden

One needs to work the earth, then make it thinner with the

rake. And next, if it is dry, one needs to moisten it. Then,

stretch the cord very close, and hit on the entire

length of the cord as with the back

of a pruning knife, in order that the cord

marks a straight line, the length of which you will un

bord make holes with an iron stake where you

will plant your rosemary. Behead &amp; cut to measure, and

prune from the bottom up.

Locksmith

To tin nails well, and other work, they file their

work very neatly. Then to clean it well &amp; rid it of grease, they

make it boil in vinegar, then they wipe it well with a

linen cloth. Next, they heat it &amp; pass some

rosin over the top, which coats it with a shiny skin like

varnish. This done, they melt some pure &amp; fine tin in

their estamiere, which is a little square iron

box. And when the tin is well melted &amp; moderately warm, they

throw in rosin to burn the filth, &amp; then they let the

head of a nail or something similar soak a little, &amp; having

remained there for seven or eight pauses, they take

it out and shake it, hitting the top with an iron to

make the tin that is superfluous fall off, &amp; clean it with a

small stick wrapped in tow. And if it is not well

tinned, you will rub it hot with a piece of rosin &amp; do

as before &amp; let it cool. When the work cools, it becomes yellow,

which is a sign that the tin is the right temperature. But it

becomes blue if the tin is too hot. Things t

thus tinned are durable &amp; are not undone like tinning done

in leaf, thus at the end of a year, they can be clarified

&amp; renewed by heating &amp; rubbing them.

Leadsmiths say that making a lizard die in the

melted il des tin makes the tinning

become very golden. Or else putting in sal ammoniac.

Small dogs

Small dogs who should be water-dogs are recognized by this, that

they have a larger muzzle than others.

Salted artichokes

One puts them whole &amp; not too ripe in a firkin that one

fills with brine. Then, one serves them all

year among salads, raw with oil &amp; vinegar,

for being thus prepared, they take long to cook. But take heed to test

your brine with an egg, for if it is good &amp; strong

enough, the egg will float on top. If not, it is not strong

enough and would not preserve the fruits.

Trees

Which bear fruits quickly are aged and scarcely last.

Birds

Which have been fed by the rod do not whistle among the

company of others if they are not in a separate cage. For teaching them to whistle well, one needs to take them from the nest before they can

see &amp; cover them with down or a hare skin. Thus,

having not seen their father and known his voice, they better learn the whistle

that one teaches them.

Founding

The putty is made of burnt earth which has

served in the founding; this is earth bourre bolvene,

in which one has founded. One grinds it on a big

stone, &amp; with this one makes the

cope of first coat of the cope of

bells, where there are letters &amp; works, &amp; le

only needs to be reheated in the flame of straw, and molds very

neatly.

The earth which molds en noyau is subject to making

it porous, if you do not rub well with a brush or your

finger the piece to be molded, which should be well

oiled. And do it coat by coat, &amp; not all at once.

Earth or sand moistened or ground with water wants

to be reheated more than sand.

Latten from a candlestick is not pure, for one mixes in it

iron filings &amp; potin.

Latten wants to be cast hotter than copper, quod

non credo.

To cast carefully, one ought not to take metals already

alloyed, but take them pure &amp; mix them.

Iron hardly agrees with being cast in a mixture of

copper or latten.

It is better to mold all with one sand, be it in a frame or

noyau, rather than in various mixed ones.

One ought to reheat for one or two hours et

p, in thata charcoal fire which

lights by itself, a crucible with the substance inside, and

then blow &amp; cover the crucible with large charcoals

&amp; the mouth of the furnace with bricks, and

let it consume two or three feedings of charcoal, which

se fill the furnace above the

crucible. At the end, stoke it to a violent fire, &amp; when the

flame is very white &amp; the substance is in a liquid

bath like water &amp; casting off pale blue flames,

cast. The secret is to cast very hot &amp; in one go.

 

Lean white sand without bond renders quite 

proper for casting, &amp;, having body, if

you grind it very finely on porphyry or calcine it,

reddening it several times in the fire, &amp; spread it in

vinegar or finely grind it with water, as you know. It

also molds very neatly en noyau, as I have experimented. But do

not moisten it with salt water if you want to promptly reheat it,

for salt boils on the fire &amp; makes pustules, being pressed by

the fire. I believe that the noyaulx, gently reheated, would not

do this. I molded very neatly en noyau the substance of

skillets. White sand smells like sulfur when

reheated, and I believe it would melt. And since the substance has been

cast in it, it acquires in the mold

comme a luster as if it were

leaded or vitrified. I believe that glassmakers could

use it.

One needs very little sal ammoniac dissolved in

water.

Bell handles

They can be put back on without remaking the bell, which one ought to

put back in the pit &amp; mold it there. But should you

solder a ref cracked bell, it is considered

impossible to give it its first voice.

Quince trees

They want to be pruned often, otherwise they die &amp; do not bear

such beautiful fruit.

Cannons

They are very difficult to bore when they are of

metal because the substance is brittle &amp; frangible. But one

z ought not to push the borer with too

great a force nor continue all in one push, but pull it out often. In

that case, one makes the touch-hole muzzle of the

cannon bigger than the ball in order to avoid the necessity of

boring, because the substance is cast &amp; expands &amp;

pushes the mold. If the borer, which should be neither like a swallow

tail nor a point but be cut in the round like a wimble, if it breaks, one ought not to leave it there to rust

+

+ 

but immediately take it out of the touch-hole. This

you will do by pouring a little oil on it; then,

l turn the place of the touch-hole downward &amp;

strike the opposite side of the piece, &amp; it will fall down. One

needs to bore gently &amp; at ease when the piece is of

metal.

Bells

One does not make them in the pit if they do not fit.

Gilding your moldings for panels without

gold

Some take orpiment in leaf form &amp; pulverize it &amp; make

moresque leaves &amp; burnish it, and it is this

orpiment which is shiny like gold. However, ground

metals or ground cristallin or touchstone are

better.

Orpiment orange

One sublimates it &amp; one grinds it, &amp; some put in a little

arsenic to make it melt instead.

Varnish

Some make the one of mastic with two ounces of

mastic and one of clear &amp; white turpentine oil &amp;

eau-de-vie as above. Heat it on ashes until it is melted,

then let it rest &amp; put it in another vessel to purge it of

dregs.

Gold color

To quickly make a layer of or on

mat on canvas or other oil panel, one makes fatty

walnut oil in the sun or on the

fire, as said above, for it thickens by itself in this way,

although there is neither lead nor ceruse. And with this,

grind massicot, minium &amp; other desiccatives,

not verdet nor orpiment, for they cause the

gold to die. It will be dry soon. However, if the

weather is not serain &amp; dry, do not soften it,

for if the weather is damp &amp; humid, it would

turn black.

Portraying from nature

One needs to carefully observe the eyes, the nose &amp;

the beard, for these three things make strong resemblance.

Gemstones

You need to pestle your materials in a mortar of

thick glass &amp; encased &amp; stuck with mastic

into another mortar of wood, in order that it does not

break. This can serve for perfumers. &amp; la

t the pestle, also of glass.

Mortar of glass and

slab of glass for grinding

Vitrified saltpeter

Being melted with pebbles, it makes the glass very white.

But before, one needs to calcine it on a hot tile or shovel. And that which will remain from the vapor, mix it with as

much of the white calcined pebbles. It is true that, in the

little furnace, it does not clarify well. But for large panes of

glass, it makes the glass very clear &amp; white &amp;

clean.

Windows that the sun will not pass

Take the aforesaid calcined saltpeter &amp; expose it to

a humid air or place, and it will convert itself into a

liquor which, if rubbed on both sides of the windows, the

sun will not pass through; rather, it will give shade. One

needs to put the saltpeter on some clean thing

place &amp; it put glowing charcoals on it,

and continue all over until it no longer burns.

It also serves for melting &amp; for adding to alkali salt

for cleaning hands.

Gemstones

Take white pebbles that are found by the rivers &amp;

among the sand bank &amp; paths, which are

somewhat transparent, &amp; if they are perfectly transparent it

will be better. If not, use the best &amp; whitest that you can. Calcine

them three or 4 times in your four à vent, &amp; extinguish

them in water or vinegar. Next, take a

℥ of them and pestle them in a

totally pure copper mortar &amp; with a pestle of

pure copper, and grind them until they become very fine

&amp; soft powder, and this is a sign that they have taken the substance

of copper, enough for giving them greenness. At that time, on your

℥ of pebbles, put in three

℥ of good minium, not adulterated by

brick &amp; anything else, and grind everything together again very

well in a bronze mortar. And on all of this, put in a

gros pour

℥ of sel de verre;

&amp; some &amp; the common people put in

e sandiver that they find at the

glassmakers' or apothecaries'. But alkali

salt, as you know, is better.

In this way, the common people make emeralds &amp; cast in

sand. If you do not have a bronze mortar, grind

with a mort in a kettle

of pure copper.

One needs to reheat crucibles before putting in materials, and

put them in the fornaise or four à

vent before making &amp; increasing the fire.

They are made in an hour &amp; a half.

A gros of salt on the four

℥ of pebbles &amp; minium. When

one says, for ℥, this is to be understood: on

one ℥ of the body, &amp; not of the

salts &amp; the minium.

Emerald

For ruby take gold leaf

Raise your furnace by two tiles all

around, because one needs more heat for making rubies than for

emeralds. And take one ℥ of white

calcined pebbles and put it in a mortar of glass, &amp; having ground it coarsely with the pestle of the same,

mix in grain the weight of a

grain of gold leaf of what the painters

gild, &amp; grind

Some say that, mixing the gold with the pebbles and the

saltpeter, it makes the color of a peach tree.

Others say that it is necessary that the gold be cemented several

times, then beaten into leaf.

again very well, then add in iii ℥ of

minium, &amp; pestle well again all together, &amp; put

it in the crucible, which you will cover with an appropriate

tile, a bit thick, in order that heat reverberates better

there. Then, set it on the grate of your furnace,

having put under a few thick rounded squares. Next, fill your

furnace to the opening with charcoal, so that it will

be heaped, and let it kindle, and always maintain the heat evenly

without letting the charcoal decrease. And for this effect,

always make it so that the furnace is heaped &amp; full of

charcoal, and maintain it thus for one day.

The first experience that I made of it, it only returned a yellow mass,

as is vitrified minium alone, &amp; some grains of

gold in a mass at the bottom. Try cemented gold

and accompanied with antimony.

If you need greater heat, plie put, on the edge of

the opening of the glowing furnace, tiles, one against

the other, for making the heat reverberate.

Topaz

The same dose is observed for all gemstones, namely

one weight of calcined pebbles on three of

minium, pestling all separately in a

copper mortar for emerald &amp; in an

iron mortar for making topaz or amber

color, with pestles identical to the mortars. The

emerald &amp; the topaz are of the same heat, &amp; for an

hour &amp; a half on the fire, for they could burn.

The ruby en wants more time &amp; more fire

&amp; colored with gold leaf. I believe that pumice stone

or firestone for the ruby would be better. See the

enamels. Try also mixing, in place of pebbles, pieces of

colored glass or enamels. If the mass is not colored

enough, pestle it more in the iron mortar.

Slightly burnt tartar mixed among this makes beautiful yellow,

but one hardly needs any. The arene also makes it

more yellow.

Salt for melting

Mix saltpeter &amp; common salt, and melt them together,

&amp; cast on melted copper or ch in a

bath, &amp; it purifies &amp; makes it run marvellously. First,

one ought to decrepitate the common salt, that is to say

holding it over a good fire until it no longer crackles or, to melt it

better, in a four à vent. And cast it neatly on

marble, then pestle it &amp; grind it very finely, then

put it in a crucible on as much saltpeter &amp;

let it boil, &amp; mix them together until

It cleans &amp; purifies metal well.

the crucible will be red. Next, cast it on

marble, and you will have a substance white, hard &amp;

even, like alabaster, with which you will be able to cast medals

which will resemble marble, but keep them out of the

humidity.

Jacinth

Is made like ruby, with gold, but one does not need

such a great fire. The ruby wants fire for a whole

day, and if it does not have enough fire, it will

only have red veins.

Always heat up your crucibles.

One holds that rubified antimony makes jacinth.

Topaz

I melted one part of pumice stone, calcined &amp; pulverized,

&amp; tr with three parts of minium,

and the stone pulverized in a steel ver

f mortar. It returned me a very beautiful

yellow without any grains, more yellow than any others. It is true that

it was well saturated with color. I believe it would be better to

le pulverize the pumice in a glass

mortar, because it &amp; the minium make enough yellow by

themselves. It returned to me a mass, the top a beautiful yellow, as was

said, the bottom like firestone, without transparency. With

which, by mixing other

Varnish

The Germans make minium boil well in

linseed oil, &amp; to give it the body of

varnish, they mix in thoroughly pulverized yellow amber.

Gum ammoniac

One puts it in small pieces into a little good vinegar, &amp;

one heats, then one passes it through a cloth strainer. All

medicinal gums dissolve in vinegar.

Provisions for the work of Colchis

7 retorts

2 lb of  ☿

One measure of coarse salt

6 terrines without lead

2 large unleaded pots for calcining

2 alembics for distilling vinegar

4 pots of good vinegar

3 or 4 lamps

2 lb of cotton

One pair of small scissors

For the furnace

A coffer with a stone ten square

thumbs in size and one

foot thick, pierced in the middle 

2 earthenware boxes or  pots with a lid 

2 small pipes of fer blanc to evacuate the

smoke from the furnace 

Rapeseed oil for the lamps to heat the

furnace 

A fire-steel

Ciment royal

One lb &amp; a half of vitriol

As much saltpeter

As much rock alum

Glass vessels

The glass vessel must be made like a pear or round

pyramid, of the thickness of a small knife back, round

on the bottom without bending like vials, its opening of such a

size that a Dutch quill can just about fit

in, &amp; with a lip at the end. Thus of a height of seven

fingers’ width.

Painting on crystal or glass

They paint in oil without lines, except for the faces where

they trace the nose &amp; the mouth with black in small work, then they

make strokes &amp; highlights in white, next they coat all with

flesh color. And as for the ground, they make it with azur d’Acre 

for more beauty, or with lake for a quickly-done red, 

or with dragon’s blood for the most beauty. But

one needs to layer it little by little so that it appears even &amp; of

one color, &amp; thus for other colors. Next, they put underneath it a

foil backing for topaz, or one of gold or

silver.

Infusion of anthos or

rosemary

In the month of August, the flower is better

cooked &amp; more suitable for making oil. Take of it whatever

quantity you like, and put it into a bottle

afterward, well stoppered, &amp; leave to wilt in there

in the shade for a day. Then put in it

the first substance of wine, &amp;

leave it to rest three or four days, and next express the

whole into another vessel, &amp; into this very same

substance of wine, put in

seven or eight infusions of new flowers. Next, leave the last

infusion in the sun for a month.

Next, distil it through an alembic. Ne And take ii

ounces of this water in two or three

spoonfuls of white wine, but this is for the

elderly. Paul III used it.

Cast

Tin comes out better being thin &amp; fine rather than

thick, because being thick &amp; in great heat, it retracts. Therefore,

if you want to mold a thick piece in tin, mold it only on one

side &amp; with a cavity on one side, if it is possible, in that way

you will have it more neat, and then you will be able to solder

two halves together. But if you must mold it thick, make it in the

form, &amp; mold a lot of feeders 

    

around the figure, in this way.

Against burns, excellent

Heat linseed oil on a gentle fire without letting

it boil &amp; simmer, but once it is hot, put in a quarter as

much of the newest wax you can. Once melted, let it cool, &amp;

once they begin to curdle, stir continuously with a new

wooden spatula t for as long as it takes

you to say one 9 paternoster, and as you say them,

wash this composition with holy water, stirring all the while.

Having said the first 9 paternoster, pour out the

first water &amp; put in new one, &amp; wash &amp; stir the

composition for the time it takes you to say 8 paternoster, and the 3rd time for as long as 7, &amp; thus

you will consecutively until add new water, doing the

same as above, until the last &amp; single paternoster of

nine. Then you shall have a soft &amp; white ointment, with which

you shall anoint the burn for the space of 9 days.

But do not apply it any longer than this, for it would cause

a your flesh to grow excessively. You

b shall bandage yourself twice a day,

&amp; each time you shall wash your face with water

&amp; wine mixed together, a little tepid, not rubbing, but as if

pressing with a wet linen cloth, and you shall wipe it similarly

aff with a fine linen cloth, &amp; next put

the ointment, over which you can put ivy leaves.

This causes hair to regrow &amp; leaves no scar. A

gunpowder maker who had almost completely burnt himself

m’a &amp; showed no sign of the burn, taught me

this.

Against dogs’ mange

The English, who caress their dogs a lot for

taking care of their livestock, have grooms for them, who

not particularly hold this office. And melting pitch

in water &amp; leaving it to soak, they rub the dogs

with that water, or else with water of sublimate.

Enema

In order that the tube does not harm, for example children, or those who

se have protruding or swollen hemorrhoidal

veins, one covers the end of the tube with a piece of

chicken gut, &amp; one folds it back over the end, &amp;

in this way, one gives the enema.

Cast

Tin retracts when it is thick, thus it is best to cast it thin &amp;

to make two pieces out of one, then solder them if

need be. One uses a strong piece of taffeta to sieve the fine

sand with which one first covers the medal to the thickness of a

teston.

For making colors run

Mix vinegar with a little with bile &amp; put

it p into a glass bottle, &amp; if

you want to keep it for a long time, add some salt to it; &amp; of

this, mix some of it among your colors, &amp; that will make them

run.

Earwax

If you take enough with the tip of an ear picker &amp;

you pass it through the foam of urine, which is readily made by

those who have a headache, all the foam will dissipate.

Enamels

For recognizing well their difference and their true color by

candlelight, you need to put your candle behind a

crystal mirror or a glass globe or jar

full of water, because this light is like

sunlight.

For eating away and dissolving entirely pure gold

℞ put common salt into aquafortis in a

matrass, and let it rest two hours without

putting it on the fire. Put in the very thin gold, and draw it

out as if it had been parted from silver.

For etching on iron

One ℥ of verdet, ii

℥ of coarse salt &amp; a little

sublimate, or else grind massicot with

linseed oil, and u cover

ce the quite clean &amp; polished blade or 

iron with it, &amp; let dry in the fire or in the

sun, and draw on it what you please. Then, to etch it &amp; make

the water, take a liard’s worth of

verdet, &amp; put in twice as much coarse salt,

&amp; about four grains of sal ammoniac, &amp; six

grains of sublimate, &amp; the water ought not to

be hot.

Good mixture to color gold

Sulfur &amp; small gravel, as much of one as of

the other, &amp; the third part of

soufr salt, &amp; as much 

terra merita as sulfur.

For gilding with silver on copper and

latten

Soften the silver like the gold, &amp; apply it as if

you wanted to gild. And do not let it heat, so the silver

does not tarnish. And after it is well applied, boil it in

walnut oil, &amp; next heat it a little, &amp; thrust it in

sweet boutteure.

Enameling a cornaline

Soak some wheat flower in white wine, then

besmear &amp; cover the whole cornaline with it. And bring the

violet kind to heat again, next put it to temper in white wine

for one or two hours, then scratch it &amp; leave

the part you want to save on it, then reload it a little more on top.

Against dogs’ mange

Half an ℥ of stavesacre for

common dogs, &amp; one ℥ for big

ones, as fine powder beaten with two egg oil

whites &amp; one quarteron of

oil. Make them drink on an empty stomach, having kept them locked

up at night without eating.

Approved.

For casting

If you have some piece which will not release &amp; is big,

mold it with wax, either in hollow or in relief, because it is

malleable once soft &amp; obeys, and thus separates itself from the

piece without leaving anything. But take heed that the melted wax

be neither too hot nor too cold. Some mold with wax heated in

hot water, but in pressing, the mold becomes clumsy 

&amp; makes itself false. When you have the hollow wax form, you can cast in some

very soft clay &amp; thoroughly moistened &amp; clear, &amp; let it dry

at ease. Then you will make a hollow form on it ave of

lead or tin, in tu which what you will

form will be of good release.

Goldsmith

Know what it is to do spangling work: it is scales of pure silver

&amp; of gilt silver with which one makes the

archers’ haquetons.

Spinet playing by itself

    

Make an axle surrounded with wheels pierced all around the edge, and

attach quills as for a cittern or a spinet, 

&amp; arrange them according to the song you want to be said, leaving

telle a suitable distance between. And, turning the

axle either by yourself or by a clock spring, your invention

will be effected.

Turtles

The males have the shell overturned at the end near the tail, and have

the shell under the belly notched all its length from the tail to the

que head. And the females have neither the

overturned shell near the tail nor the notches.

Drying colors

Soot black &amp; others would not dry in oil if one

did not put verdigris with it.

Painter

Colors laid down twice are thicker in and of themselves, if they

are not managed. Otherwise, one paints on wood, otherwise on

canvas, otherwise on walls.

Gardening

For shield grafting, one needs to take the new issue

that the tree that you want to graft has made in that year, &amp;

there cut a branch on which you see that next to

raci the sprouting of leaves there are little

buttons that one calls œillets, which are the beginnings of

sprouts. One needs to nimbly, with a very sharp penknife, cut

in the shape of a shield a little bit of the skin with which

contains an œillet or sprout with the leaf, thus marked B.

But before Then, carefully make on the

tender wood, s which is in sap, on which you

want to graft, two lines thus de cut 

    , then

    make in the middle a cleft thus 

. Next, separate, with the point of the penknife, the bark &amp;

open it from the cleft in the middle, and having neatly lodged your

shield so that nothing comes out but the sprout, bind it well &amp; wrap

it entirely with a slip of linen or very

soft thread, so that there is nothing uncovered but the leaf,

which in three or 4 days will give you an indication

whether the shield should take, accordingly it will be green. Leave your

graft seven or eight days thus, then unbind it &amp;

join it well to the bark, especially at the sprout, &amp; then rebind

all gently but not as strongly as before; &amp; if there is any output

or growth, leave it space to go out, &amp; do thus three or 4

times.

Next, when it is well b taken, cut the top

of the tree that exceeds your tree, ne three or 4

fingers above the shield for the first time, and

apr then, at the closest point, in order that it

closes. But heed well that when you make your shield no small hole

remains at the back of the sprout, for this would signify to you that

its root would be broken, &amp; your graft would never take; but make it

so that the back is intact. This type of grafting is practiced

from mid-May, so that the trees have already budded

&amp; made new issue, until the beginning of

August, and so that the trees are in sap. Almond

trees, which by their nature are drier, lose their sap earlier, therefore

those who want to graft onto them mericotons,

apricots &amp; grafts of trees with pitted fruit, which are the

best there, they are grafted in the month of

January. Generally trees with pitted fruit, like

mericoton peaches, are grafted in clefts. One says

that trees de grafted en piolet or by

shield are later in bearing fruit than those by cleft.

Gardening

It would not be very careful to cultivate oraches in one’s

garden, because when soup &amp;

broth is kept a little bit cold because of it, it engenders worms in it.

Fountain maker

As you will see below in the discussion of the

molder, reheated plaster promptly mixed into

water &amp; put on the joints of the conduits of fountains

s resists as much as any stucco.

Catching nightingales

See the 15th folio after

this

For trapping them, one needs to observe their nature, the food that

they like the best, &amp; the season of their pleasure. The

nightingale, as long as it sings, maintains a territory for

itself alone. Therefore approach, making as if searching the ground for

something. And taking some worms which come from old meal or

from beneath kneading troughs or mills, which the

nightingale is fond of, put some on your hat attached

with a pin or otherwise, in order that it wiggles. And at five

or six paces from the hedge where it sings, make a hole in the

ground &amp; put in some worms and your device of little

crossed sticks. It will be anxious for you to leave so it can go

see what you have done, and seeing worms, it will enter.

Some sell nightingales on trees.

The coolness of the evening

and the morning, near fountains &amp; shaded places, are

more appropriate for taking them.

Nightingale

        

It is necessary that the iron wire of its cage be of the

thickest, in order that, thinking of leaving, it will not be

hurt. Cover, from the moment that it is taken, its cage with

canvas. One needs to feed it the first

day, giving it taking it out from its

cage into the hand &amp; opening its beak, &amp; with a

small wooden pin, put it in its throat &amp; make it

swallow. And continue thus until it is no longer opinionated. This is

done for sustaining it, for if it were to become thin, it would die.

Nightingale

        

It needs to have a cage made like a barn,

like those for calendras, doubled with green cloth,

because it fears the cold. And for making it accustomed to

eating when first it is put in the cage, one needs to give it

ants with soil at the bottom of the cage, to

make it accustomed to pecking puys luy, and give it

chopped sheep’s heart &amp; immediately some

eggs &amp; mealworms.

For casting

Aspalte is, which is found in Germany,

is the most excellent sand one can find for molding in a frame,

because it is appropriate for silver &amp; for gold, &amp;

the more you use it and the older it is, the better it is. One molds in

it very thinly &amp; finely.

Making gold run for casting

Because gold cools down very quickly, one ought to give it a

mixture when melted q it is well melted which maintains

the heat. Sublimate softens it nicely. But, because it goes up in

smoke, it does not continue to help. Therefore, mix this composition when

you want to cast: sal ammoniac, the best verdet

that you can find, a little borax &amp; saltpeter

qui li. And this, by keeping it warm, it

will come out neatly. Saltpeter clarifies it &amp;

p heats it. But the most important thing in this

mixture is the verdet, which has to be good. This

mixture softens the gold qui so much that it

becomes treatable like lead, even fine gold.

For sand for molding flowers &amp; leaves &amp; delicate things, mix

in ground raw plaster, brick &amp; feather alum.

To moisten sands, eau-de-vie is excellent, for it

grinds the sand finely &amp; evaporates que when one

reheats the frames.

Sal ammoniac water is very good, is excellent, for moistening

sands, but for lots of water, one only needs a little sal

ammoniac.

A loop of iron, for lack of crocum ferri, is

exce good for gold.

The snakes or lizards you want to mold should not

be kept for a long time, for if they are alive, they get

thin, and if they are dry il dead, they wither.

Plaster of Paris is as firm as stone &amp;

very good. When you want to choose some for your sand, take it raw,

the hardest possible &amp; which does not make any powder. The

transparent one and the one that thus makes powder retracts,

Ce which is not good for this work. A sign of the

one that is close to perfection is that it is hard &amp; made of

lustrous grains nearing the shape of sugar. Finally, to mix some

into the sand to cast gold, it is necessary that it endures the

fire twice &amp; is reheated twice.

+

When gold is very fine, it is so dry that it

can hardly endure a hammer, but this mixture softens it like

lead.

Casting in gold

To cast in gold, il f crocum

ferri is necessary, &amp; more feather alum than in the following mixture. 

The feather alum mixture cannot corrupt anything. The mold needs

to be red, &amp; one needs to press it promptly with iron

presses.

The shell of crabs &amp; crayfish are

awkward to burn, &amp; there is a proper fashion of molding them.

Rats &amp; birds can be molded, and the feet are

awkward to extract when burnt because they are small &amp; delicate.

The bodies are extracted more easily from the mold. The feet

are cast in many times pieces.

Plaster

        

When you have it as a stone, choose the hardest bits and those

which do not easily crumble away with your nail, and

clean it well from powder &amp; filth before pestling it.

    

Plaster alone does not withstand fire but breaks up into pieces.

    

      

Reheated plaster, se ga, as is said here, keeps

well one or two months, well pressed, in a dry

place, if it is not rainy weather. But when

fresh, it is excellent for exquisite work.     

    

It must withstand the fire &amp; turn red like a lit

charcoal.

If the plaster is mixed with some dust or is not the

hard kind, it bursts in the fire &amp; causes flashing.

The hardest plaster, as was said, is the best

when it is from stone, therefore take it raw of this kind. Pestle it

well as finely as possible,

and pass it through the finest sieve or sleeve that

you can. Being thus p fine, put it,

in a good amount, in a cauldron or

skillet over an open flame, &amp; as it begins to heat up, stir

it continuously, and heavy &amp; coarse as it is, it will become so light

&amp; so handleable that it will seem to you not to have any resistance

to handlingstirring, as if it were water.

Keep stirring it continuously until it returns once again to being heavy

&amp; dense, and that is the sign that it is cooked. But do not reheat

it until your brick and feather feather alum are

reheated &amp; the clay circles are made. For it needs to be the

last one reheated &amp; when all the rest is ready, for the less

plaster #

Feather alum is the one that gives good

binding to sand.

Crocum ferri is appropriate for

gold. It is that one which, being mixed among the sand, receives it

&amp; holds it within its warmth.

    

# remains reheated, &amp; more the

more quickly it is put to use, the better it is, for it sets more quickly.

One ought not to reheat it until you want to mold. And to reheat it, put

it, as finely ground raw powder, in a cauldron on

ash a clear flame, &amp; do not make it either too strong nor

too violent. Always stir with a long stick to avoid the vapor,

turning it around the cauldron &amp; in the middle, in a figure

8. At the beginning, you will find it heavy difficult to

stir, because it is full of moisture. As it heats up, it will start to

throw off some bubbles at the edge of the cauldron. And finally,

it will become like liquid &amp;, as it were, mealy &amp; like bran &amp; boiling in

the middle. Continue to stir continuously until you recognize that it

has once again become heavy,

ʘʘ

    

ʘʘ

as heavy as before, and like a moderately thick paste, &amp; that it is

not so easy to handle as when it is liquid. It is a sign that it is

cooked enough, which you will know when it also throws off big bubbles or

exhalations, in the middle &amp; around, as long as a

finger. Seeing it in this state, remove it from the

fire, for it is heated enough, because if you were to reheat more, it

would be too much &amp; would not set as well. For when it becomes red

&amp; overheats, it loses its strength &amp; spoils the sand. Leave it

to cool before mixing it with the other sands. And when it is cold,

mix and mold, for the sooner after its cooking you use it, the

sooner it will set.

Tiles

Tiles with which one covers houses, the hardest

&amp; firmest, and purged of stones &amp; coarse gravel,

are used to p mix in with the sand

et for molding. But, before, it is necessary to heat

them until they have been quite red for one or two

hours, &amp; pestle them &amp; pass them finely

through a sieve.

The little turtles, having just come out of the egg, are

very nice to mold.

Those of the houses that are not sandy seem to withstand

fire better.

Catching lizards and snakes

Take a stick and attach a string at the end which

has a knot eyelet slip

eyelet at the end. And there being two or three to distract the

lizard by whistling, approach the eyelet toward its neck,

and when its head is inside, pull. The lizard is more

tedious to catch by hand than the snake &amp;

bites without letting go &amp; grips like pincers.

Snakes can be caught by hand, provided

that it is covered by a thick woollen cloth, for the

teeth of the snake stay in the cloth &amp; cannot

pierce like they would with a linen. The dangerous ones are

recognized by their blue &amp; asses aseurés

azure eyes. They hardly ever bite in

water, which crayfish catchers

experience.

The sand mixture is of two parts of plaster, pulverized

&amp; reheated as said, &amp; of one part of tile,

reddened et p pre in a good

fire after the first cooking &amp; then finely pulverized, and of

feather alum, half as much as of the brick, namely two

full crucibles of plaster, one of brick

&amp; a half of feather alum. There can never be too

much feather alum, for s this is

what gives bond to the sand, and because it does not burn, it makes sand

withstand the fire without cracking &amp; bursting. Otherwise, without

it, the sand would not withstand it. This sand, thus composed, is proper

for all metals, but if you want to use it for gold, one

needs more feather alum &amp; than the aforesaid 

composition, and mix in some crocum ferri. For it is this one that attracts gold.

It is necessary that all sand with which you want to cast well,

withstands the fire well, that is to say that it withstands

abon c a great firing without

getting spoiled.

Feather alum is awkward to pestle, and it does not

pass through the sieve. Thus, one needs to grind it finely on

marble. And the white one que v

in powder that apothecaries sell is good. It is

ground better su in the mortar by pestling

&amp; dragging the pestle, thus you will render it very

fine.

Crocum ferri must be set ablaze in a

glassmaker’s fournaise for four

days.

Molds can only be used once because for

delicate things, like wormwood &amp; others, one needs to break

them, but before one needs to dip them well into water in which

the twice reheated things dissolve easily. Otherwise, you would not be

able f to release your work without danger of

spoiling it.

Good feather alum is white and has a luster as

of white c silk. It is in pieces

long as a finger, &amp; is very breakable &amp; wooly

as down. The one made of stone is harder &amp; not so

good. Il The best of the aforesaid quality is

fetched in France, near Rouan. The feather alum for our sand is pestled in a mortar and is

further ground on marble, especially since one

cannot think of passing it finely through the sieve, for it is

so fat &amp; wooly that it would not pass through it. It is this, with

its small soft qui &amp; thin filaments, which gives

binding to the sand in a much more excellent fashion than

cloth shearings in the founder’s earth of the founders

of great works, because these cloth shearings &amp;

cloth waste burn and feather alum resists the

fire.

To enclose the molds, when you em throw

onto the things to mold your liquid sand, make your a circle

&amp; surround with well beaten fatty earth.

Archanum omnibus fere reconditum est in re fusoria,

utvidelicet res exprimenda formis, sive herba sit sive

animal

ut lucerta, in af inting

inmergatur primum in vini spiritum

aprime rectificatum, deinde pulvere composito aspergatur

sive illinatur (si pulvis in formam pultis redactus sit, ut

assolet).

When you want to mold hollow, it is necessary that the

core be of the same material. And if the snake or

the animal is curved or folded, one ought to make the core of

several pieces.

Test whether distilled vinegar is

appropriate for eating away &amp; dissolving what will be in the animal

molded hollow.

If you know that your plaster is not strong enough to withstand

the fire without cracking, do not be so scrupulous an observer of the

mixture put here that sometimes you mecties would

not diminish the quantity of feather alum

la little bit, for it softens the

molds with its softness. Once reheated, do not pulverize it on

this occasion as fine as said, but leave it as the

apothecaries have ground it, for it does not hinder the

neatness of the cast &amp; gives more binding. When the sand

mold, estant having set, retains the color of brick and is reddish, it is firmer.

To hold the cores, some use wire of the same

metal that they cast because it reduces with &amp;

melts with its counterpart, but because when melting or folding, the

core changes, some find it better to r use

iron wire, sharpened at the ends, because it holds

firmer &amp; having delicate ends, it appears as no more than a point of

a needle. And one can apply gold or silver before using

it for a work. If it makes a hole, one covers it with a small

chisel.

Eau-de-vie prevents the sand from becoming porous &amp; does

not make little holes on the edges of the mold if the thing to

mold is well dampened with it. The holes &amp; blisters &amp; bubbles

are not made on the side of the mold, which is thick, but at

the edges, which are thinner.

One casts with common silver, with which goldsmiths

commonly work, which alloys indifferently Et que.

And when one were to cast with solder, it would run even

better.

Spat is a whitish stone which can

be found in Germany, &amp; mainly in Augsburg, which

one uses for the most excellent sand that can be found for lead,

tin, copper, silver &amp; gold. And the more

it is used, the better it is. It is appropriate for casting flat things

in a frame. For round things, it is not as fitting nor does

it hold in the fire as well as the aforesaid one made with

plaster.

The shreds of cui thick, greasy leather

are pgood to cast in the molten

copper and latten, for it cleans it &amp; removes from it all its

filth.

Spalt

Spalt is white like cooked plaster and can be found in

mounds and stones formed in long scales &amp; long veins. It is

very soft, such that with a fingernail one can scrape

it, &amp; makes a powder like our chalk from Champagne.

And because everything which comes from the earth is mixed

with some other substance, to purify it, one grinds it, coming from the

quarry, quite coarsely, then one mixes it with sal

ammoniac water. By putting in a piece the size of a

walnut in a large bottle of water, and

thus one mixes it &amp; reduces it into

psmall stones, purging it of its

impurities. Then, one puts it to cook neatly in a

pot earthen vessel in

the fornaise of those who make pots, and one

leaves it there until the pots are cooked. Next, one mixes it

again with sal ammoniac water &amp; one grinds it very well,

and one empties the muddy &amp; clean water into a separate

vessel. Again, one puts the same water on top &amp;

one grinds, &amp; again one puts the muddy water with the other.

And one does thus, until it has passed everything. In this way, one

purges &amp; cleanses it, &amp; one renders it very fine &amp;

handleable. Having taken away the water by tilting it or with a

sponge, one takes the residue and one dries it. Then,

moistening it with the aforesaid water, like one does with

the other water sand, one uses it in a

frame, where, if it retracts, it is a sign that it

has not reheated enough &amp; that one needs to reheat it further. This

one is appropriate for molding all metals, and especially

gold &amp; silver, and the more it is used, the better it

is. One needs to set aside the one in which you cast lead or

tin, for it would sour the gold you would cast in it.

Feather alum should be reheated in a

cauldron crucible covered

with a tile in a strong flame

fire of charcoals, in order that the impurity which could be there

burns with the feather alum, which does not burn. This is done either in the

goldsmith’s forge, surrounded with

bricks, or in a fourneau à vent with

fusion fire, so that the sand remains long enough 

crucible remains red for a

quarter of an hour. This is done more to cleanse it

than for anything else. It becomes reddish on the surface &amp; on the

inside it remains white &amp; better dried out. #

#

After your feather alum is cooled,

pestle it in a mortar, then grind it on marble, and it will be rendered into very fine wooly

filaments which give bond to the sand without getting burned as

other things do, which is a beautiful invention. Pestle it in the

mortar by dragging the pestle, for the flying dust

could enter your throat or land on your face, which

will give you reason to scratch yourself well. Put it in the mortar a little

at a time to avoid the flying dust. It is

better to grind it thus, in the mortar, dragging the

pestle, than on marble,

for where c it spreads, &amp; in

the mortar, it collects on all sides. Render it very fine &amp;

soft to the touch.

Clay, to make circles around molds, should

be very fatty &amp; handleable, and serves only to make the surrounding of

the molds. Thus, one ought only to choose the quite fatty kind, and beat

very well, &amp; moisten it moderately with some water, &amp; keep

it in a pit or in a terrine, and make numerous

holes with a stick in it, which fill with water, in

order to keep it always fresh &amp; soft, so that it is always ready to use

when you need it.

Modeling in wax

When wax is too hard, one mixes in turpentine or a

little butter, which sont pl renders the

wax more amiable and more appropriate than the tallow

that the Italians put in, because one often has to put the

tools in the mouth, which are better in boxwood or bone of hart.

Wax for molding -

As the wax is melted, they have sulfur that is

melted in a spoon or crucible, &amp; they pour some

in the melted wax. And going to the bottom or

remaining on top, the sulfur leaves &amp; mixes only its substance amongst the

wax &amp; renders it more meltable when warming it, such that

having molded, it melts in the mold gently like butter, without leaving any pustule or bubble in it. Also be advised not to give it too strong a fire.

If

Molding wax

In order that your mold grips without repelling in any place on

a shape or image of wax, you need to anoint it with oil

and moisten your sand with lukewarm water, for the cold

water would repel the oil more &amp; would not have a good seating on it.

Anoint well, very lightly, with oil, so little that it hardly

appears. Then, rub with some eau-de-vie. Next, moisten your sand

with lukewarm water so that it does not repel the

oil.

Bellows of the forge

It is better that they should be fixed through the blast-pipe in some piece of

thick plank, q for they are more secure for it; next, you can lightly

secure them from above. It is necessary that blast-pipes be 4

fingers above the sole of the forge.

Snakes for molding

When you take them for molding, if it is possible, do not remove

their teeth if you want to keep them. For, having had their teeth

removed, they get sore gums &amp; mouth, &amp; can no longer eat. You

can keep them in a barrel full of bran or even better of

earth, in a cool place, or in a glass

bottle. And give them any live frog or other little live animal,

for they do not eat anything dead. Also, I have noticed that

when they want to bite or eat something, they do not bite with a

direct attack but with sinuous turns &amp; from the side, as do

Satan &amp; his disciples. It has a small head but

a very long body. The entryway to sin seems small &amp; inconsequential,

but the consequences of it are very great. It abstains from eating seven

or eight days, once it has devoured some

frog. It can swallow three or four of them, one after the

other, and what it devoured is neither corrupted nor consumed in one go

in its stomach, but p some part little by little,

that is to say bones and everything. And the remains are found as fresh

as when it had devoured them, such that sometimes, when one presses

&amp; torments it, it renders up what it has engulfed, parts of which

are found totally consumed &amp; others as fresh as if it were alive. It

can keep a frog

engulfed for two to three hours &amp; renders it up completely alive.

Toad

If by chance you want to mold this vile animal, &amp; if it were to

piss in your hand, it would burn your hand

&amp; itch, as if you had handled nettles. But the most

powerful remedy for this is to put your hand into

fresh earth &amp; to cover it as if you wanted to bury it.

A frog is not so beautiful molded because it has lively skin,

&amp; the other has a lumpy one.

You can mold it hollow, and leaving under its belly an open notch, you

will make it jump with the twisted cord of the saw. Or else, if

it is small, put it on a magnet of its size, cut thinly, then

put it in good vinegar.

When it is big, one needs to mold it hollow, &amp; if you want to make

it have an open mouth, put some cotton inside, &amp; then on the

cotton some melted wax.

Killing snakes for molding

Some put a drop of aquafortis in the mouth,

which stuns them well, such that the head &amp; the part behind

seem to be dead but the mouth remains alive, and when you pierce it

with a needle to fit it to the mold, it moves &amp;

spoils &amp; undoes everything. Therefore, to put them to death entirely, put it

in a bottle of good vinegar &amp; some eau-de-vie. And do thus with lizards &amp; other similar

beasts.

If you want to keep them, you can put them in a pipe full of

earth in a garden outdoors. But your pipe

must be covered with archal wire, for otherwise it would

climb &amp; go up very high.

Molding

You could mold the thing and animal already cast, but it

never comes out as well as the one from nature, with which you can make

four or five molds.

Rock &amp; grotto

One needs to pestle white &amp; yellow marcasites &amp;

diverse kinds of minerals, &amp; then wash them well, in

order that the earthy &amp; powdery part is cleaned &amp; there remains

only the lustrous grain of the mineral, with which you will

sprinkle your rock previously covered with strong glue, 

if your grasse grotto is

r not for a fountain &amp; for touching

water, and you will have a nice work.

Snakes

When they feel taken, they hardly bite &amp; do not have the power

to harm, unless they are really big snakes. The main thing is

to keep from being bitten before catching them, and having put your

foot on top of it, as close to the neck as one can,

one needs to grab it closest to the head, for it cannot bite if it does

not have the means to stretch its neck &amp; make a sinuous &amp;

oblique turn, &amp; it cannot s harm with a direct

attack, since he cannot move forward in a direct line, but writhes in

the shape of an S. I saw that the one who taught me to mold

them did not take this into account, &amp; assured me that there

was no trick to it, other than, when taking it, he would pull it, a

little pressed &amp; held tightly by the neck, &amp; passing it under a

shoe, he would flatten it in such a way that it would render

soubs from its bottom, which is five to six

fingers from the end of its tail, all nasty and

venomous things that it had in its belly, and that after this, it does

not have the strength to bite, and if by chance it should bite or expel

through its bottom some filth, he would only dig the

earth with a knife, &amp; bury his

hand in fresh &amp; damp earth, which, when

applied fresh en on the infected part,

pulls out all the venom and nothing else. It is the same with

toad’s venom, which I have seen experimented. 

In three, it is almost as thin as it will be afterward if it does not eat.

Molding it very soon after it is caught is best, before it becomes thin. One

ought to put it to death only a quarter of an hour before you want

to mold.

When it has eaten something, by tormenting it, it renders it up.

And if, after having eaten something, it is thus pressed

underfoot, this pains it greatly &amp; hurts it. If it

is wounded, it will not eat willingly.

Molds

There is nothing better for opening them up than to anoint them with

olive oil, &amp; nothing else. And next, when you

want to unjoin them, soak them in cold water, which is the

secret. LAnd you will see that the

oil, although it seems to be imbued, will detach itself, like

grease. Molds become stronger in cold water. And hot

water would dissolve them awkwardly, although once reheated, they

are more handleable &amp; easier to dissolve in the

water.

Wheat oil

Is made on a blade of iron reddened in the fire. And

the oil drips off, which is appropriate for anointing the hair of

a butterfly or similar thing, for this oil is instantly

dry &amp; makes the remainder dry out. It is necessary that the hair or

down of any animal that you want to mold be flat, for being upright, it

would elevate the sand &amp; become porous.

#

If you want to mold

something delicate, like a pansy, some, to give it a little

thickness, more than what is natural, some rub it with butter. But it

is best to anoint it with wheat oil, for it has no body,

&amp; does not obstruct the small lineaments as much, and makes the

flower firm.

Cast of lead and tin

Because tin wants to be cast very thinly, if your medal,

plant, or other thing for molding is espe thin &amp;

fine, do it so that there is more tin, much more than

lead, namely less than the fourth part lead for three

parts tin. And still, one puts lead only to form an

alloy. On the contrary, if you want to mold something strong &amp;

thick, put a lot more lead in than tin. And in one &amp;

the other you can put a little looking-glass tin, but only a

little, with a little rosin, when you want to cast. Since

then, when molding with fine and new lead, I put into one

lb two ounces of fine tin. And when molding

with fine tin, I put in two ounces of fine lead

for one pound. I made plants &amp; snakes just like

nature.

S

I cast tin almost red, and lead the same, which, however,

had not remained in the fire for too long, for it becomes brittle and

calcines.

Reheating molds

The frames readily dry out &amp; do not reheat. For

reheating is actually for the second time to redden &amp;

inflame the molds in the fire, and drying out is to let the

molds dry themselves or to make their dampness evaporate by

placing them in front of a flaming fire or a charcoal one.

Noyau molds readily reheat &amp; frame molds

dry out.

Latten smoke

It is good to reheat in it the molds for casting latten,

for this gyellow filth, which

appears nevertheless to refill the molds, casts very neatly,

being of the same nature.

For red copper

When it is melted, it is good to throw in a little fine tin,

for this makes it run.

Clay earth

This one, moistened &amp; well beaten &amp; kneaded as you know, is

necessary for you to make the contour for containing your

molds. But take heed that it is not too soft, but rather as if

half dry, that ilit does

not attach to your hands, because otherwise

it would attach to your work. Always keep it in a damp place,

and make holes in it, and fill them with water to keep it

fresh.

The gray one is best, which does not crack at all.

It is more appropriate than a blade of lead.

Iron wire

You also need to have provision of different sizes,

according to the molds that you want to make; thick

like cord, smaller , &amp; thin p,

like the thick strings of a spinet, for the small works. Once de reheated, you

make clamps from it to close the

molds, &amp; points, like needles of different lengths,

according to your need, to pierce the animal to be molded &amp; keep it

held down. Needles would not be good for this because their points have to be empty &amp; of the same thickness

throughout, except at the point. And then, one must make them as long as

you have need of. Iron wire is firmer than that of

latten.

Sal ammoniac wateer

The size of two chestnuts of pulverized

sal ammoniac suffices in a pot of water,

and to the tongue, you find the water

moderately salty, for too much is not good.

Sanguine

To clean the various colors of lead &amp; tin, one

pulverizes sanguine, &amp; with some small bristle brushes, one rubs the

molded ework.

Crab and crayfish

These are the hardest to mold, &amp; whoever molds them well will mold

many other very delicate things.

Lizards

When one takes them with two fingers from the

sides of the head, at the level of the ears, one makes them open their

g mouth, then one takes the a

end of its lower mandible with the end of the

fingernail, &amp; next, with the upper mandible,

he bites the nail, but he cannot pass through, but he

clenches very strongly. And if he were to bite living flesh it would

au not let go, &amp; there would be no better remedy

than to promptly cut off his head. In the spring, as they

have changed skin, they are more beautiful.

The small lizards that one takes in the summer, the

size of small female lizards, grey on the back &amp; green on

the belly, are very appropriate to cast in silver &amp;

gold, or other metal, because they have rougher scales

than the female lizards &amp; show better.

like pincers

Composition of sand

Once everything is reheated as said above, take four 4 full

crucibles of plaster, two 2 of brick,

&amp; one of feather alum. Do not pass through the

sieve to mix may because the

alum would not pass. Mix with your

hands until neither one nor the other, neither white

nor red, can be discerned among the other. If your plaster were not

strong, do not mix in at all so much feather alum, because

it softens the molds. Take heed also that your sand is not hot

(since it has immediately been reheated) C when you

will want to mix it with water, for this les

makes molds too soft &amp; breakable.

You may sometimes diminish the quantity of plaster if you do not

find it strong enough to withstand fire &amp; if it cracks,

&amp; in order that the part of pestled tiles holds up, with

the feather alum, which you can also increase so that

it creates a better bond.

For tempering sand

You need to have a big basin full of water to

q soak the molds to open them, a

flagon full of common water, a

lead bowl for tempering your sand, a small

wooden spoon to collect the wetted sand in the

bowl. The big basin is pour

tr

To make handles for your large oil paintbrushes, if you do

not have large enough feather quills, take two of them,

&amp; slit them, &amp; join them together.

Decoction of sands

Already mentioned.

Molding en noyau. Mixture of sand

Having reheated your sand, namely the plaster, the

feather alum &amp; the brick, &amp; having

passed them finely through the sieve,

#, mix them this way: take four parts of

plaster, two of brick, &amp; one of feather alum. Mix them all together with your hands

that it in such a way that one cannot discern one from

the other. With your sand ready, you need to put to death the animal that you

want to mold de, in this manner.

#

except for the feather alum, which

should be ground in a mortar

Putting to death the animal for molding

You need to be careful not to wound it in taking it. And, having put

it in a glass bottle d with

bran, or in a barrel full half full of

fresh &amp; damp earth, if you want to store them or keep them a

long time, give them live frogs &amp; not dead ones

to eat. For if you keep them without feeding them, they wither &amp;

grow thin &amp; have long wrinklaulxed skins. Thus the best would be to

mold it as soon as after possible

apre after it has been taken. But before, put it to

death in this way. Place it in a clean bottle or vessel so

that it would collect no dust. And put inside such a quantity of good

vinegar &amp; urine that it can be covered. And shake it

&amp; torment it therein until it is dead, which will be in an hour or a half. But if you are in a

hurry

To know if it is quite dead, take it out of the vinegar and take

it by the tail. If it moves it, do not mold it for it still has feeling,

&amp; when piercing it, it would draw back &amp; spoil the mold.

Water snakes hardly bite.

to cast, make him take through the mouth some good eau-de-vie or else mix a little with the vinegar. And soon it will

be dead, without any lesion which deforms it. For large animals, for

whom one would need a lot of eau-de-vie, one uses

vinegar and er urine. But for small

ones, only eau-de-vie, which is done sooner.

When your animal is dead, take it out &amp; clean it carefully of its

old skin, if it sheds, or of the filth, or of the lice, like

lizards have, and then arrange it thus.

Now, put enough in a glass, &amp; soak &amp; continually keep in it

the head of the animal, or the whole of it, if it is not

big.

Take heed, before it dies, to keep the eyes open es

by blocking the eyelids with a little bit of wax or something

else.

For molding Making the arrangement and disposition

of the animal

Having made provision of fatty earth called

clay, that should be grey because that commonly is the best, or

another which has good binding &amp; which should be well prepared &amp;

beaten, such that it is handleable without attaching to the

hands nor the work, make a lasagna or like a

cake of this earth equally flattened with a round

stick which pastry makers use, which should be a little

thicker than a thumb. And on this

cake, arrange your animal, aya

imitating in that its nature &amp; fa the fashion in

which it commonly turns itself. And first, with a good needle,

pierce it from underneath in the middle of the throat &amp; up to

u the top bone of the head. Retract the

needle, &amp; in its place &amp; its hole, put the point of

an iron wire of such a length that it suffices to hold the

head of the animal as q high as it must be, &amp; if

the skin moves into the inside &amp; when you put in the

    point

, pull it out with a

point the edge of your small pincers, &amp;

arrange it as it was. Push the other end of the point in the

cake of clay. Thus, the head will be held high,

which will have better grace, &amp; being secured, next, arrange the gesture

of the body &amp; the feet &amp; the entanglement as you think will

look best. And so that it is secure &amp; does not move at all when you

cast in the sand, put secure the legs

&amp; the corp with little points of iron

wire, having already made the first hole with a very sharp

needle. Do the same on the body parts that you will deem necessary,

arranging making sure that the points

passing through the animal are fixed in the cake of earth

and not so far in front that they jut out beyond the body of the animal

by a

Take a fine needle of steel, &amp; which is the sharpest

possible, in order that, making with it the first hole to place the points

of iron, it passes without forcing anything, &amp; by its

roughness does not push in or pull out the skin. Next, put in a thickish

point of iron in thick places &amp; thin ones in thin

places. But heed as a secret to not plant, in the first go, the

point passed through the animal in the slab of earth,

for but having planted it, take it out of the

earth &amp; not out of the animal, &amp; do ains 

next, fix it. This is done because, by fixing it the

first time, it pushes in the skin of the snake, and by taking

the point out, it replaces the skin in its original state.

When you put again the points you have already used, clean them

well of rust so that they do not take away some skin.

The main layout of your arrangement is to di place

the head raised &amp; looking sideways. For this effect, pierce the head

on a solid plank or table &amp; , making the

point pass through the bottom of the throat,

s’arrestan entering into the top of the head

    

bit, qua so that t you can

take it out if you need to. And take heed that it is necessary that

these points be of the most delicate iron wire possible

which can support the size of the animal. For the more delicate it is, the

smaller the hole that it leaves appears. However, one needs 

different thicknesses of these, because il

de the points which are put in the body

&amp; in thicker places, like under the throat, ought to be longer &amp;

stronger than the ones of the legs &amp; thin parts, where the

needles ought to be subtle &amp; delicate, almost like the

thickest strings of spinets. And it is better that they

be of iron wire, which is firmer than the one of latten.

And if the end of the tail, or the end of a nail or a leg, ought to be

joined to the body, do not put the point there, not to corrupt

it. But place wax, as much as a grain of

millet, between the body &amp; ce

qui the end of the tail, then with a bit of

flattened &amp; hot iron wire, touch this wax &amp; join

by lightly pressing. Thus having placed your animal on the

cake shaped like a mandore, place all around a

circle of the same

 

earth, in this way,

 b

 &amp; join everything well together in a circle, then, with a

big knife, with which you have cut your cake to

the right size, trim the outside which exceeds it, &amp; place there a

piece to close it as you see in b. Then, with a small curved

instrument, mark on the inside of the circle the thickness you want

to give to the mold, which will be for a common snake

as thick as two thumbs, in order that when you

cast in your wetted sand, you will see when it is thick enough. All of

this carefully arranged, moisten well everywhere with good eau-de-vie, with a paintbrush, the body of the animal

which is uncovered. For there is the secret, of the most

kept well hidden, because everything that will be v

touched by eau-de-vie will undoubtedly come out very

neatly &amp; without porosity any small eyes or holes

that one calls porosity, which usually come not at the back &amp; in the

thick sides of the mold, but on the edges. And as soon as you

have thus moistened everything with eau-de-vie, cast

in your wetted sand without letting the eau-de-vie dry,

which evaporates promptly. And wet it thus.

 

and make sure that the point is longish, depending on how much you want to elevate the head, and that it be pointed on both ends. Once placed

thus, plant your snake on the slab of earth, &amp;

arrange the head first and then the rest.

If, after you have placed your animal on your clay

cake, you are distracted with other occupations, rub your

animal with eau-de-vie, &amp; under the belly, so that it

does not dry &amp; attach itself to the earth.

 

If, when you pierce your animal, it renders water from the bottom

of the side of the belly on the slab of earth, clean it well

with cotton for the sand that 

Eau-de-vie in three goes.

would touch it would be lumpy. If

it is on top of the animal, clean it very carefully and touch it

&amp; moisten well with eau-de-vie.

Tempering the sand and molding the first cast

Take a bowl of leaded earth of such size that

it can hold the tempered sand which will be needed de to

fill your mold in one go, which is mei

better than in two goes, because if you do not cast the second wet batch

 promptly, there is a risk that while you are preparing it, the

first one will set &amp; become solid,

such that, while reheating, the two casts will unjoin. Et

pour pl Therefore, for this effect, take several bowls of

different size which have a lip, to cast better. In these, pour

some common fountain water, &amp; mix into it as

much sal ammoniac water as can be held in an

egg, # composed as mentioned.

If you want to cast in lead or tin, because one would

need more for casting gold &amp; silver, the

water being in your bowl, mix

put y your sand in it &amp; not the water

in the sand, &amp; add it a dista dista with such

discretion that il, while stirring &amp; mixing it

promptly with a wooden spoon, it does not become thicker

than clear mustard. And thus, first cast into your mold

lethe lighter part, qui

es as is always at the surface, with a shaking motion, &amp;

da from a little height. And doing so,

when the animal is nearly covered, blow strongly everywhere in order

to dissipate the small and big bubbles that the wetted sand makes &amp;

continue without delay to put all the rest which is at the bottom, &amp;

a little thicker than at the top, until everything is filled, up to the

mark for thickness that you made.

    

 And do not forget to shake the mold

affin while casting, in order that the wetted sand runs

&amp; enters well everywhere. Also, tip your mold up on the side

of the head, which is higher than the body, and thus your mold

will have the same thickness, &amp; you will spare sand. All of this

being carefully done fai, let it set, which will

take a quarter of an hour. Then, release the

clay circle, which can be used another time. And leave it to dry

a little, &amp; separate your mold from the

cake of earth, which also de will

be appropriate for molding right away, and trim the excess with a big

knife, giving || to it the long shape of a mandore.

Rasche

If you can, fill your half mold in one go &amp; with

la pre one tempered batch; it is the best.

#

or two eggs, because there is no risk if there will be more.

And the water If you cast in two goes, it is enough

to put sal ammoniac water at the first bowlful. 

Make it clear like a pureed broth, or like starch

water that women use to make their starch. For

there is no risk in it being very clear, because sand always settles at

the bottom &amp; water separates &amp; remains on top. The sand that one 

scrapes as well mme too weak &amp; soft. And it will not let

itself set quickly, for all things calcined dry out promptly from mixed

water.

    

If you do not fill in one go your mold

tempered with tempered sand, take heed to stir your

second cast with the e p surface of the first,

p by mixing with your spoon or spatula with which you temper it.

Scrape &amp; cut also away the back of

the mold, which is always the weakest, and adapt it

cleanly thus. And do not forget to make notches around, in order that the

second cast anchors itself there &amp; binds better

            

    

 without changing.

        

Sal ammoniac water is not necessary to small

molds, which require neither a big nor long fire to be

reheated; however, when you put some in, it will only be better.

Second cast

Second cast

When you have well molded the first part of the animal, that is the

back, the backbone, and the entire top part, and the

len half-mold where it is enclosed has set

    and is hard enough, 

 +  uncover the whole bottom part &amp; side of the belly,

    

 now with a knife &amp; tant

at the thickest places, &amp; then with a penknife, where the

most delicate parts are enclosed, such as the legs, the tail, &amp;

similar things, and because the head is higher, you will also need to

look for it &amp; uncover deeper, and make a deeper notch there which

ought to release easily. That is to say, widening on the outside, in order that

the second mold that you will cast on it can come out well,

which even the animal can help with, which is malleable and obedient,

being natural. However, ad be more careful

when uncovering the throat of the lizard than with the

snake, for the lizard has large jaws &amp; large bones

that are not malleable and has hollow ears, where, if the wet sand has

entered, it is not aff easy to release. But you will

avoid all of this, if you uncover half of the head and those things that

you know do not release well. Once everything is uncovered well, blow

on top &amp; wipe each part, by wiping with tiny hog 

bristle brushes, slightly moistened by the end with a

little saliva, or with clear water, as you uncover

it, in order that your the uncovered lower part of your

animal will be very neat. #

🝋 With this done, dip le

rev your mold your mold, for the length

of a paternoster in water, not

du the uncovered side but

opposite, &amp; the reverse of the uncovered thing. And this is in order that,

by sucking the water inside, the oil with which

you next anoint the other side to avoid, is not

imbibed at all, but remains on the surface &amp; prevents the second

cast that you will cast on it from attaching to it. Having therefore

thus dipped the reverse of your mold in the

water, take a paintbrush especially dedicated to

this &amp; anoint it with it, anoint with oil

the whole surface of the mold, except the animal, which must in

no way touch the oil, &amp; take heed to retrace well &amp; to anoint

with the point of a paintbrush between the parts &amp;

through all the delicate parts. And if by chance the oil is

imbibed, dip the mo reverse of the mold, as

mentioned, in water, &amp; you will see the oil return to

the surface in little drops.

Mold small animals like big ones, except that you need to make

delicate points of of fil cist

cittern strings, both long &amp; short.

    

        

remove with your small flat pincers, all the points.

    

And then,

+ now with

    

However, leave the point of the throat, so that it serves as a

clue to find the head, which is deeper down than any other part, because

when making the arrangement you disposed it higher. It is also at the

level of the head that you should make the biggest notch, &amp; start

with this one to uncover, and follow the rest through the trace of the

points.

#

And if some bit of nail from a leg, or from a tail, or from another

should separate from the mold, put y

between the two a small grain of wax, &amp; with the point of a

hot iron wire, join it, then adapt your mold with a

knife, &amp; make notches on its sides so that the other

half binds to it.🝋

    

    

This thus prepared, place your de first

half-mold on the cake of earth

clay, &amp; put the circle also around, &amp; make the mark for

the thickness similar to the first. Then, with another rather thickish

paintbrush, moisten well everywhere the uncovered half

&amp; belly of your animal

Et with eau-de-vie,

without leaving anything, if it is possible, which is not moistened, for

this is the secret which makes it come out neat. And next, as promptly

as will be possible for you, before the eau-de-vie

ne evaporates, wet your sand and cast it in thrusts and by blowing &amp; moving the mold as you did

for the first one, making sure that the premier q

first thing you pour on the animal should be a little lighter than the

next one so that it moistens everywhere &amp; closely follows the more delicate

parts. So, leave it for a quarter of an hour to set, then

remove the circle &amp; the clay cake. And, with a

knife, arrange your two molds uniformly together in a

long shape of a mandore, as mentioned, because of the cast.

Then, dip a little the whole mold evenly, at the level of the

joints, in water, for this is another secret to unjoin them,

otherwise you will break everything. Separate them nimbly, therefore, by

this means, and next, extract gently &amp; with patience and method

the half of the animal remaining in one of the molds,

for pulling it sometimes from one side &amp; sometimes from

the other, to avoid breaking any of it, or also spoiling something from

the mold. Et The latter being empty,

retire rejoin the two halves so that no dust

enters it, &amp; put them aside until you want to reheat them, make the

gate &amp; vents, &amp; place the clamps. As for the animal, so

that it does not dry &amp; that you might be able to mold it four of

five times, put it in water. And I think that it would keep even

better in eau-de-vie. However, the best would be to mold

in the same day the 4 or 5 molds that you can do,

because these corrupt animals in themselves stink within one day. Having left your molds one or two

es days to dry, for they stay

damp for a good month, make the vents on one

    half.

+ Note that when you have made your second

cast, were you to leave your mold for one

day or a night without opening

it, you would need to then dip it in hot water or else reheat it

before opening it, as for crabs.

If, after both halves of the noyau have made a strong &amp; hard set, you

would not dip your mold in water, it would not unjoin at

all. But as you dip the reverse of the mold in water,

the imbibed oil collects at the top &amp; at the level of the

joints &amp; makes it separate.

However, take heed your second mold is of good thickness &amp;

that it is hard enough because if it is lacking in this, after having

dipped it in water, &amp; you want to open it, there is a risk

that it breaks. Take heed therefore to avoid this, and wanting to open

it, dip all of it in water and rub it everywhere,

where it will harden if it has set well. Then, take your two

molds, joined with a rough linen cloth in

order to have a better grip, and separate them with strength as if you

wanted to tear apart a loaf of bread. But if it happens to break, join

it &amp; on the reverse, strengthen the joints with clamps.

    

Next, you can repair the faults with small chisels.

        

    

 

    

if you want, which will be enough, or else on the two halves.

But because one needs to cast by the tail or from the back of the

animal, make it so that the vents come from the head &amp; the middle of

the body to join to the said tail, where the gate is done, which is the

end of the mandore. NAnd having done your cast, do not forget to make in

it some holes and notches because the metal will run more neatly thus than if

the cast were even, for it gets corrupted in its notches &amp; holes,

&amp; does not go so much at once, &amp; does not become as porous. This

done, mects join tthe two halves of your mold &amp; strengthen the joints,

putting around these some small clamps of iron wire of this shape.

 They

prevent 

the molds from deforming &amp; corrupting while reheating.

    

This is the shape of the clamps

Make the cast, reheat the molds, &amp;c

Note about everything

above |-|

If your snake has been without eating for a long time, it

happens that, when you want to put it to death in urine &amp;

vinegar, it fills with a lot of water &amp; swells, and

next it dries out as you fix &amp; arrange it on the clay

cake, and next it happens that when you have cast your

mold tempered sand on it, &amp; it has set, it

ends up coming out such that between the snake and animal there

is a line of distance D, in which enters

the second batch of cast tempered sand M. Avoid this,

therefore, if you can. But if this cannot be, do not let this prevent

your second cast, for the sand which will enter in this void will be so

weak that it will easily be removed with a small point &amp;

will not have set with the first hardened one.

Note that one needs more feather alum for

molds that should be reheated, like those for gold

&amp; silver &amp; things that one needs to burn inside than for those which release well &amp; that are only for casting

lead &amp; tin. However, do not put too much in either one.

Animal after release

If, by chance, you gave your snake such a writhing shape

that the place of the belly cannot easily come out, especially

since the head &amp; the tail, which are the two ends, are

thinner, cut everything which is outside, &amp; reheat the

mold so well that what remained inside burns, then pass some

quicksilver inside, &amp; attracting ce qui

the ashes &amp; the burnt bones from the inside, it will

also come out, because the conduit is big, &amp; thus will not sour at

all your material. You can pull really strongly the molded

snake, because it is soft &amp; malleable &amp; obedient, &amp;

the mold, having set, is so firm that, because of this, the

imprint will not be spoiled.

Mold reheating

After your molds have been reheated le

&amp; cleaned, casting soonest is best, because if you keep them, they

get corrupted and damp. Reheat the thickest part, where the body of the animal is, 

at the top, so that, if there is something inside to burn, it falls to the bottom.

Mark the part on top to recognize it

It can only be good to let the mold die down a little from the outside 

so long as, being well reheated, so long as it remains red on the inside when you will cast.

Cast of tin

If the plant or flower that you want to cast in tin is

delicate &amp; fine, it is necessary that the tin exceeds the

lead in the mixture, &amp; on the contrary, if it is thick, it is

necessary that the lead exceeds. Therefore, for the mixture

fine thing, put in some fine tin, not at all the quarter

part of lead. And make sure that your mold is

hottish, such that you can hold it in your

hand when you want to cast. As for the

alloyed tin, the same as mentioned, it is necessary that it is

very hot &amp; almost red for casting, so that it penetrates. Otherwise,

having to run the length of the fine branches of

the plant, it will get cold before arriving there. And do not forget to

mix in it a little looking-glass tin, which makes it run better

&amp; firms it up.

In the lead alloyed with tin, or tin alloyed with lead,

you can put a little bit of metalline, &amp; it will seem

silver. But do not put too much, for this hardens the substance

&amp; sours it also, so that for a delicate thing like legs &amp;

similar things, it would not be appropriate.

For giving venting to the mold

In addition to your vents, if your es plant is

very fine, you can pass a thread through the

clay circle, rather than casting with a

needle, &amp; make sure it passes through the plant. And with the

thread burning like the plant, a hole will remain which will

give air &amp; venting, to help clean.

Reheating the noyau molds

After your molds have their gate, vents &amp;

clamps, as is said, make at the end of the forge

en, or in some clean place, a surrounding of

bricks, and fill it with large half-lit charcoals. And place your

molds on top, and leave the charcoals thus to kindle by

themselves for a half hour, so that they heat little

by little and not all at once. Finally, as they will begin to become white,

beat little by little the thus half-lit large charcoals

on top &amp; blow with your little bellows until they are

warmed. And thus, little by little, invigorate the fire,

without haste, until your molds are quite red on the outside

&amp; the inside. If it is for casting some plant or some animal which

does not release well, &amp; if, for this reason, one needs to burn

it in the mold, &amp; when you look through the gate, &amp; through it, you see the molds are very red &amp; inflamed

inside, this will be your signal that they are reheated enough. But if

you do not see this signal, increase &amp; continue the fire until it is

the case. If there is nothing in the mold that needs burning,

it will be enough that they are dried well on the same fire, if it is

for casting tin. They reheat better in a reverberatory

furnace.

Do not pull out your reheated molds from the fire before they

have cooled themselves, &amp; take care that the wind or the

cold does not hit them while very hot, for this would make them burst. One

must not reheat them before they are dry and firmed up, for they would

cast in a different way, and it is necessary beforehand to make gates

&amp; vents &amp; place clamps.

    

Take care not to heat the fire in one go, for fear f

that your molds crack inside.

They are reheated enough when the entire hole of the gate is red. When

it is black, it is not enough.

For casting in silver, one must not reheat two times

&amp;, if there is nothing in the mold that needs

despouiller burning, simply because it does not

release well. All the molds of flowers are reheated

two times, first for             

    

burning the plants, flowers, and animal parts which are left inside. Next, one

needs to clean them &amp; remove the ashes. Second, reheat them

&amp; render them red for casting. At the beginning, reheat with some

charcoals, gently lit, and put your noyau molds flat

on the charcoals surrounded by bricks. Frame molds are

reheated on a grate.

Molding bouquets, plants, and flowers

 One needs to mold them as soon as they are picked because they

ont wilt &amp; dry out. Dip them, therefore,

immediately in good eau-de-vie &amp; then put them in your

tempered sand mold, like snakes. For which one needs no

release, for while the molds are being 

reheateds, the plant burns, which does not happen with

animals that have bones &amp; q. It is necessary

that for bouquets, the sand be not as thick as for snakes

because, if it were thick, it would crush the flower.

Molding de en noyau, with the same

sand, wax images or lead medals and suchlike

Check if they release well. If they do not, fill with wax

what does not, and then anoint your images of wax or of

lead with olive oil, very thinly &amp; very

lightly, such that the oil makes no thickness nor body on the

medal. Then, heat a little eau-de-vie,

until &amp; when it is lukewarm, moisten the oiled

medal with it, for if it is the water were cold, it

would reject the oil, it would not sit well on it. Next, cast your sand

of plaster, bri brick, &amp;

wet alum on top, having arranged your image on the clay

mandore &amp; having made a circle around it

de to give it the necessary thickness. These medals

are oiled and rubbed thus with eau-de-vie

because they are firm &amp; hard &amp; would not be malleable for taking

out of thee the mold, which is

tenacious, as are natural animals, which are soft &amp;

flexible.

When you have tempered your sand, do not cast it in the middle of the

mold but on the sides, so that the sand descends gently and

that the beginning is thin &amp; afterward thick. If your tempered sand

sounds like water falling in the mold, it is a sign that

is too thin. Make it, therefore, of medium thickness.

Casting for gold and silver

It is necessary that the molds be fiery red &amp; ablaze when

you cast in gold &amp; silver, or you burn flowers and

bouquets. The gate should not be very thick at the entryway of the

molded thing because the substance flows better when at ease and

without shaking the mold, &amp; does not become as porous.

A way to grind enamel gold

very delicate gold rose leaves and others

After you have cast or beaten in gold the thin leaves of a

rose or other things, if you want to enamel them, you

need to solder or braze your delicate gold leaves onto

silver strips, which uy will strengthen them

to support the enamel. Next, once the thing has been

enameled, put the work in aquafortis

d, which will eat away the

silver &amp; leave all the gold with its enamel.

For this, the gold needs to be passed with ciment real.

Molding snakes in all weather

aulcu Because in the winter they hide

in the earth, some feed them des in quantity in

barrels filled with earth &amp; covered with

manure. Others make several molds in

summer, because with one snake, you can make four or

five. And others mold lengthwise a natural snake,  without

it being in a writhing shape, with common plaster, reheated as said

pu, en noyau &amp; in two half

molds, as said, then they cast it in wax. In that way

they have snakes that they can twist as they like, and then

they cast them in metal, as is said.

If, in twisting the snake from wax, some feature becomes

undone, you can repair it by removing the protrusions from the molded

wax.

Mixture of tin and lead

For delicate plants &amp; other flowers or thin foliage, the fine

tin ought to exceed the lead more than three parts.

And if it is a thick &amp; coarse material, the lead ought to

exceed by more than three parts. Heat the mostly tin

mixture until it is almost red &amp; very hot. And when you want to

cast, in removing your crucible from the fire, throw in two or

three grains of rosin, &amp; for one lb &amp; a half

or two of lead or tin, put with the rosin as

much looking-glass tin as the size of a hazelnut

with its shell, &amp; mix &amp; cast. And make sure that there is

more of the metal than is needed, in order that some is left.

However, if there is not enough, finish casting, &amp; it will take. But

it will not be so neat. Next, dip your mold into water,

&amp; with a point, release it carefully so that nothing is

spoiled. Make your cast a bit longer. If the material is very

thin, one needs for it to be almost all tin.

If you mold more want to cast in lead or

tin en noyau in the aforesaid sand, reheat your

mold once, only if there is nothing to burn inside. But if it

is for plants, flowers, &amp; animals to be burnt, one needs to reheat it

two times, however not as much the second time for lead &amp;

tin as for silver &amp; gold. For for these, they

ought to be red when you cast, but for lead and tin, let

it cool until you can hold the tip of your

finger in the gate without burning yourself,

but you find a lukewarm heat.

Cast for copper and latten

For red copper, one needs to put sal ammoniac, which

cleans &amp; purges it of all its crust when it is well melted. There

are some who put in pieces of old leather thick new

leather. Others, parings of the feet of field mice.

Others, melted common salt alone, or melted with saltpeter.

The principal is sal ammoniac &amp; a little fine tin, as

to what you want to cast. Red copper is more troublesome to melt

M than latten. But when it is well melted, it runs

better, especially if it is alloyed d’un with latten.

Latten alloys with a quarter of copper, and

one puts it in like in copper. But

particularly, a little calamine makes it run well.

A means of molding flowers and plants

One needs to choose them in their full verdure &amp; vivacity, &amp;

les mou not pick them, if possible, until the time

one will want to mold them, so that they do not wilt. Or, if you need to

carry them from afar, soak their stems in a bottle of

water or, better still, wine. Make, first, a

wax stick pointed like a large peg, of a size appropriate to what

you want to cast, as you see in the margin, marked A. Put &amp; prick at

the foot of this small peg a bit of rather thickish &amp;

strong iron wire. And at the point of this, you will fit your flower stem or your

plant. This done, set it aside neatly. And arrange your

mold of t circle &amp; shape of clay, as you

have done for the snakes, in the form of a mandore

in such a way that according to the size of your plant. Then,

take the one that you have prepared to be cast, as we have taught you,

&amp; wet &amp; moisten it very carefully with good

eau-de-vie with a paintbrush. Then pass the

wire stem through the end of the earthen

mandore, in order that the wax q

peg, where the plant is fastened, joins to the end of the earthen

mandore. And arrange thus your plant in such a way lying down

that it remains in the middle of the said mandore, without

touching on either side, so that a the sand that you will

pour in it will be of equal thickness as everywhere &amp;

is exceed everywhere by the height of two good

fingers the top of the such plant. And

having secured the wire stem well, promptly pour wetted

your wetted sand, much thinner than the one for snakes, in the

mandore. And the sooner the better, in order that the

eau-de-vie does not dry. And take heed to put in a little more

sal ammoniac water among the

common than you would do for the

snakes. And when you will make sand especially for your

bouquets, where you would mix in a little more feather alum, it

can only be better. Thus, your mold will be in one piece

and it will not be necessary to unjoin it, but rather leave

separate it from the clay once it will have set, let it dry, and

then reheat it again until the plants are burnt.

Then And note that if the plant you want to cast has

a strong stalk &amp; stem, you can cast it lying down, as had been said.

But if it is some weak &amp; delicate flower, cast

plant it upright with the wax peg because the sand will

always cast lift it up, it being very thin. Do not forget to

adapt two vent holes with two small sticks, starting at the

foot of the cast, which is the pointed end of the wax

peg.

If the plants are so delicate that they rise to the top when you pour

the tempered sand, one can fix and contain them with a thread

passed through the circle of the mold with a

needle.

The more delicate the flower is, the thinner the sand must be.

Mold en noyau.

For making the ashes of flowers and plants leave

molds

Some mix put quicksilver inside it. But, if it is

a small work or fine &amp; delicate foliage that only has

p a slender exit, they make two errors: the first, that

quicksilver by its heaviness can break f some delicate

feature inside when shaken, the other, that some grains will always

linger inside that will make metals sour &amp; hinder the

perfection of the cast. It is true that if it is to empty the

mold of some animal which is thickish &amp; which has big conduits

&amp; passages by which the quicksilver can easily exit, like a

bird or a snake, one can indeed put in it some

quicksilver pou to break by shaking the

calcined bones of the animal, because the said ☿ will

come out &amp; not remain.

The asparagus stalk is so hard that most often it remains as

charcoal. Because of this, dry it out beforehand, or wet it with

oil of sulfur &amp; turpentine, or cast separately the little

branches &amp; solder them onto a thick stalk drawn through the

wire drawing plate.

If the burnt thing has left some filth or ash, let it cool

a little, &amp; with an iron wire wrapped in

cotton that can bend according to the cavities that you have

to search out, clean &amp; blow out this defect, or with a soft

brush or a cut paintbrush.

Daisies

They can be cast well in gold. But if you want to

enamel them, you have to make them by hand &amp; enamel

them &amp; then attach them. Otherwise, the leaves would be so pressed

together that the enamel would muddle together there.

Sand that was used

Do not cast it. But because it is mixed with feather alum,

you can use it in the mixture of other sands, &amp; it can serve in

place of brick.

Molding à noyau figures of wax or medals of

lead

Rub them with oil with a paintbrush, but let

it be so lightly that your medal is almost rubbed dry &amp; that it

hardly appears to have been anointed. Next, destr rub

it with eau-de-vie and heat the water with which you will

temper your aforesaid sand, with plaster, brick &amp;

alum, in order that being chau as if lukewarm

when you cast it, the oil will not refuse it, as it does with

cold water, &amp; do not forget when moistening your sand to

always mix in it a little sal ammoniac.

Medals mold in such a way very neatly.

Blood of snakes

If you need to cut some snake inside the mold to

burn it, cut it far from the entrance of the

mold lest blood remains, for it would

make a crust that afterward would not be taken away by the same

quicksilver &amp; would remove the impressions from your

mold.

Snails

Those which are found in the sea &amp; similarly those in

which certain small crabs dwell are very beautiful for

grottos, if they are stripped of the first crust of their

shell with aquafortis, for they truly appear to be made of

mother of pearl.

For removing flashing and barbs from things molded à noyau

If your molds are of good plaster which withstands

well the fire, &amp; they will not crack at all, especially

if, with presses, they are squeezed well between two

boards or in a vessel filled with ashes or

sand, &amp; in this way they will make no flashing. But if they do

make some, you can remove it with a burin that one calls

chaple, which has a tip like a small

chisel.

For grottos

The old vine stocks

Stones made from water called stuf,

charcoal, the compound of tin &amp; fine latten, paper

pestled &amp; mixed with pestled glass, cork,

heated parchment, white coral are appropriate for making grottos. But fantastical pieces of wood which are

found in the forests, &amp; mushrooms, and

potirons of trees, once dry, are better than

any other because they are light. One mixes in small pieces of

looking-glass tin, which has a shiny luster. One finely pestles diverse sorts of marcasites which one washes to cleanse them of

earth, &amp; one sprinkles the work with it, which is very

beautiful. If there is no fountain in the grotto, one

glues all al of this with strong glue, 

which and it is soon done. Take

specimens of all kinds of minerals. The sulfurous marcasites,

which do not have a grain but are uniform like looking-glass tin,

are very beautiful.

Rosette is found sometimes mixed with certain brittle

lumps which are pulverized under the hammer, which are very

beautiful pulverized on grottos.

Looking-glass tin

It whitens &amp; renders firm fine tin if en

on one puts in in one ounce of it, that

is to say, i ℥ of looking-glass tin in

one lb of fine tin.

Sal ammoniac

It Sal ammoniac water is very natural for casting

in gold &amp; in silver.

Casting in frames

The same sand that was used in the reheated noyaulx,

composed, as is said, of plaster, brick &amp; feather alum, is excellent for casting in frames, and I

have experienced it thus: I pestled the pieces which had come out of

noyau molds in a mortar, dragging the

pestle because this sand is very soft. I did not

pass it through the sieve because the feather alum mixed throughout, which binds it, would not pass, but I

ground finely upon marble what seemed to me too coarse.

And having prepared it thus, I moistened it with sal ammoniac

water, made of sal ammoniac, as much as two

walnuts, in a bottle of common water, the

same size as a bottle in which one boils tisane, or in a

good pot of water, so that you find d

the water moderately salty. I mixed throughout water

of half a glass  of sal ammoniac, two

othe two au t silver

spoonfuls of eau-de-vie.

J’a Having thus moistened the sand in such a fashion

that it gives a good hold, nevertheless coming apart easily, I sprinkled my

medal with charcoal pulverized with a file, to rid it of

oil and all other grease, which are necessary to avoid,

for they make would hinder a good release. I blew on my medal

&amp; molded it, and the female part of the frame once

filled, I marked &amp; made a line on the reverse of

the &amp; edge of the medal &amp; on the nearby sand as well. In

order that the second frame s’em take the

imprint thereupon to denote the place for making the cast, having

filled the female part of the frame being filled I

uncovered the outline of the medal and pounced the whole side with

pulverized charcoal, and then filled the male part with sand.

Once made I separated the frame and did not hit the

corners of the d medal to make it release, because

that knocks the sand &amp; makes it esp crumble.

Rather, I struck the back of the frame, retaining the obverse of

the medal on the bottom, and it molded very neatly. If it had not

released thus, I would have waited to remove it until the

frames had been dried out over fire. I lit the a row

of charcoals between two little trivets of iron in the

form that you see, and put the back the &amp; reverse of the

frames thereupon &amp; the imprint on top, because in this

way, they dry out gently. And if, by chance, from

being too moistened they should crack, it is on the back, which pr

takes the harshest fire, &amp; the imprint remains safe &amp;

whole.

For better, one needs to reheat the sand used for the noyau

before using it in frame, until it no longer

contracts.

Excellent sand

Take a little of the same sand, the finest that you can, to cover

the medal with. 

For medals &amp; flat things, the true heat of lead &amp;

tin is when it is melted gently.

Note that I filled the frame before pressing it and did not

hit it at all, but rather pressed it only with the strength of my

hands, because hitting it makes it go awry. Secure

your frame that it does not shift at all, &amp; if you put some

wetted sand under it, it will only hold in place more firmly.

Make the gate so that it is not too thick, so as not to overcharge the

medal, but wide enough near the medal that it embraces a third part. Do

not forget the vents.

    

    

    

To dry frames is to rid them of humidity so that they no

longer smoke, being nevertheless very hot.

Reheating is to redden the frame, which is done for

gold and for silver.

 As I saw that they did not smoke anymore &amp; that, scratching

the back &amp; the front of the cast &amp; having found that they are

rough &amp; firm &amp; hard on one side and the other, which is a good

sign of their being quite dry, I left them to cool. I took some fine

tin f, one lb, &amp; one ounce

of lead, fine &amp; new. I melted it in a crucible until

it was, a little as it were, a little red. Being in this way quite hot

I smoked &amp; not p &amp; being ready to cast, &amp; not

before, I smoked with the smoke of a tallow candle all

sides of my frames &amp; imprint &amp; cast &amp; everything.

I set my frame, well joined, in the press. I drew my

crucible from the fire. I left it a little pass so that

the redness at the bottom of the crucible could die

down. And wanting to cast, I threw in two or three

grains of something like pitch rosin, &amp; at the same time the

size of a bean of looking-glass tin, &amp; I

mixed, &amp; stirred the crucible a little, and I cast. And the

medal came out as neat as the principal. I smoked it with the

candle &amp; cleaned it with small

brushes.

Always cast through the foot of the medal because the head, which is

lower, will come out better &amp; make the cast longish. And when you

cast several medals in a large frame, they will come out

better.

Advice about the above

Good tin is that which is hard as silver

&amp; soft nevertheless. If your work is thin, it must be almost all

tin &amp; alloyed as is said.

Looking-glass tin must not be smoked mixed until

the instant that you want to cast.

 Nor must the forms be smoked until then.

 If the sand shrinks in the frame, this means that it must

be reheated &amp; reddened on the fire.

Good sand, when moistened, does not stick at all to the

hand when pressed.

The perfect sand for the frame is

aspalt, which is found in

Germany, which is soft as flour &amp; almo

when wet, and almost all the others are lumpy.

Nota that the cast must be thin &amp; hardly thick

in order that it does not overtax the material, and must not

exceed the thickness of a the width of a grain of

wheat; likewise for tin, which wants to be cast

very thinly. For lead, a little thicker. There is no need to make

the vents very large &amp; deep either.

For frames, the sand that you use for the noyau, of the

aforesaid composition, is excellent. But in washing, crushing &amp;

reheating it several times, it must be corrupt from its nature &amp; no longer fit to make a hold &amp; to mold en noyau.

Fashion of preparing a spalt

spat

It is found in earth in Germany, the color of cooked

plaster, made of long filaments, very soft to handle. And because it

is mixed with earth and filth, one pestles it coarsely

&amp; one makes little balls, having for this purpose soaked it in

sal ammoniac water of such a composition that you were told

above. One places these balls to reheat in the fire of the fornaise

of the potters, then one soaks it again in the same

water. The earth and the coarseness and

filth go to the bottom, and the pure aspalte,

which is light &amp; soft, and handleable as wet flour, adheres

with the water and goes to the surface, clouding the

water, which murkiness is emptied into a separate vase.

When it has settled, one empties the water by tilting or by taking

it away with a sponge, and the pure aspalte

remains at the bottom. Dry it &amp; employ it in a frame that has

been moistened with sal ammoniac water. And try it in the

frame, in which it shrinks when reheated or dried, that is to

say that one needs to reheat it again on a good fire and redden it.

Thus, for medals and flat things, you should use this one, because it is

the most perfect of all for gold, silver, copper,

lead, latten, &amp; tin, for it withstands the fire

&amp; reddens whenever need be, without corrupting. The more it is used,

the b better it is, &amp; it does not spoil. At the beginning

it is white, &amp; being used, it becomes grey. However, make sure to put

aside the one that served for casting lead &amp; tin &amp;

latten, for gold would sour in it, &amp; would not come

out of it well. And to do this better, you could put it aside to be used

for each metal. 

See Gesnerus, De lapidibus

It endures ten or twelve castings without corrupting, it withstands the

fire &amp; reddens, it is suitable for all metals. It is so

tenacious that should the frame be furrowed, it holds.

The spat almost does not set, even though it is reheated &amp; is

a kind of plaster. Raw, it breaks easily with the

fingers.

Excellent secret for molding hollow and very delicately in fine

gold

Cast with your aforesaid sand your animal and lizard

or other thing with billon silver, &amp; it will come out very

neat. E But take heed to mold it hollow, or at least leave a

small hole in its mouth or in another place. Next,

gild it with fine gold, as uniform as it will be possible

for you, three or four or five times, &amp; until your gold has

the thickness of a piece of paper or something similar,

&amp; all the scales will always show equally. Next, put it in good

aquafortis, which, by this hole, will corrode the billon,

&amp; the gold will remain hollow &amp; light &amp;

wonderful.

Stamped medals from wax

You can mold in wax, mixed with a bit of rosin so it

will be harder &amp; firmer, the relief of whatever you please, either

an animal or a medal, &amp; then, from it, make a hollow form of

latten or copper. Or, hit it mold it

in relief and hammer it in a sheet of tin,

Et pu and then fill with lead &amp; heat it.

Try sheets of gemstone foils molded in a hollow form for lizards,

&amp;c.

Sand for casting in gold

Take common sand of alum, of plaster &amp;

brick, according to the composition said above. Add to it some

more feather alum. And mix in not quite the third

part of crocum ferri. However, its quantity cannot

be harmful, for it is that which receives the gold &amp; thanks

to which it comes out very neatly. But it were good that your

crocum had previously been in the

glassmaker’s fornaise, three or four

days and three days and three

nights, in a flat box where it should not be very thick, so that it reheats better.

You could cast gold well in common sand of

goldsmiths, should you throw therein some substance that makes it

run. Before the invention of crocum, one would cast

flowers in silver but not at all in gold. It has not been

forty years that one knows this in

Germany.

Sublimate is commonly employed by goldsmiths for

gold. Some add sulfur, but they &amp; others are wrong,

for sulfur sours, even as it heats. And the sublimate is

agitated, boils, and bubbles. It is very good to clean gold

because by its exhalations, it draws everything out as it goes up in

smoke. But to warm gold &amp; conserve its heat, there is only

the couleur, which is verdet, sal ammoniac,

saltpeter &amp; borax. This makes it run, &amp; you can

throw in a branch of wormseed.

IlNightingale

One needs for the cage, made like those for larks

like a barn &amp; lined with green fabric, to be

made with a drawer underneath, to refresh its fresh earth

everyday, for it takes much delight in this, &amp; mix in it

some ants. You can carry an anthill with its earth

in a barrel full of earth, &amp; keep them there &amp; they

will lay their eggs there, in order to always have some at hand when you

want them, should you take pleasure in feeding nightingales.

When you have taken it, it is fat &amp; full, &amp; thus, to keep it in

its strength, one needs to, for the first day,

take uyit in the

hand &amp; open its beak &amp; put in its beak with a

small pointed stick some mutton heart or other

delicate flesh, chopped up not too finely, in order to fill its

belly &amp; keep it from diminishing &amp; growing leaner, until it

has gotten over its fancy. The next day you will give

him And you will feed it in this way three or four times a

day &amp; will also make it drink. The next

morning, you will give it in its cage some well-minced

flesh with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and change it two or three

times a day, for it will not eat it if it is

hardened &amp; if it is not fresh. And if it goes half a

day without eating, one needs to feed it as before &amp;

do so until it

eats by itself. And to entice it better, you could add amongst the

meat &amp; the egg some live mealworms, for it is

very fond of them.

Secret

Herodotus, on the first page of Clio, says that the

Greeks were on a long ship on the coast of Colchis

&amp; to the river Phasis, whence they carried off

Medea.

Galleys

Herodotus, on the third page, says that Gyges

presented to the temple of Delphi

pateras aureas sex pondo 30

talentorum.

Gold vases

Herodotus. Halyattes, the father of Croesus,

pateram ex ferro compactilem

apud Delphos dedicavit spectatu dignam inter omnia quae sunt Delphis donaria, opus Glauci Chii qui solus omnium

compactionem ferri excogitavit. Compactile

ferrum, which is made by assembly

&amp; things joined.

Iron vase joined and soldered

As small peddlers lay open small wares in order to buy

richer ones &amp; to profit more and more, so I, from a desire to learn,

am exposing what little is in my workshop to have

it receive, through a common commerce of letters, much rarer

secrets from my benevolent readers.

Crocum ferri

It is excellent plastered on wounds to stop the

blood. The best is made of needle filings.

Crocum ferri hardens molds, once reheated,

&amp; feather alum, the more there is, it renders them softer

&amp; sweeter.

Anatomy

 One needs to skin the animal &amp; boil it, or else skin it &amp;

put it into good quicklime.

Making silver run

If it is for a large work, arsenic &amp;

tartar, pulverized &amp; thrown on the melted silver, makes it run

If it is and suffices. But for fine work, one needs some

aes ustum, filings of

latten of thin copper, u

 antimony, sublimate, finely pulverized.

This From this gets made a mass that does not sour. If the s plaster is good, one ought

not to add crocum for silver, but one puts more

feather alum. It needs also some melted common

salt &amp; some saltpeter with the aforesaid drugs:

arsenic, tartar, aes ustum, copper

filings, antimony &amp;c.

See the second leaf following.

Sciscitatio dubia

A little tallow and arsenic

Keeping dry flowers in the same

 state all year

This is a rare secret, &amp; which gives pleasure for adorning

tables, rooms &amp; cabinets out of season,

when winter denies flowers. Take heed, therefore, to

ce pick them when they are in full vigor &amp;

growing. For if you were to take them when their season

is past or when they are starting to wilt, they would not keep.

Having thus chosen them, therefore, take sand, the leanest &amp;

driest you can find, which should be very fine, like that which

goldsmiths use use to work

enamel or like that for stampings. But above all, it must not

make dust, nor remain on the hand, or leave a mark on it

when you have pulverized it &amp; then poured it from your

hand. For it is

        

River sand washed by the current of the

waters is good, being passed through a linen cloth

to shake the powder.

    

    

+

Flowers are also kept in their same beauty in distilled vinegar

vin a well sealed vessel which does not

allow any wind, which should be well sealed with wax &amp;

mastic. Carnations &amp; roses, the residue

of common vinegar makes them rot. If the sand makes

dust, &amp; clings to the flowers, &amp; is not easily removed

with a paintbrush, it is no good. The leanest is the

best.

    

    

+

Make sure your box is well joined, in order that the sand

does not trickle out. Keep it uncovered in sunlight and

remove it from the serain &amp; the humidity of the

night, &amp; cover it &amp; keep it in a dry

place.

QueTake heed not to put the said flowers in big

vessels, for when one pulls out one, one needs to pull out all. 

Take good heed not to pick your flowers w in rainy and

humid weather, but when the sun has been shining on

them.

a sign that it has some humidity, &amp; if the flower also had some

aquosity, it would rot. It also ought not to be too coarse,

for with its heaviness it would weigh down the flower &amp; make it lose

its form. Having thus chosen it as is needed, take a box, in

which you first make a mound of the said sand, on which you will set the

stalk of your flower, so that laid down so that the flower

touches neither the bottom nor the sides of the box, but

remains in the air. Then, weigh down the stalk with more on

sand in order that it remains firm &amp; fixed. Finally, take some of the

same sand &amp; with two fingers pulverize &amp; cast

it delicately on the flower, e imitating in that the flow of

an hourglass. And when the flower is as if

half covered, strike your fist on the table

where the box is set in order that the sand drops &amp; enters

everywhere. Finally, cover it all over and thus lay in other flowers,

in order, one over the other, as many as your box can contain.

That being thus arranged, expose it for several

days to hot sun. And while the flower dries, the

sand, which ever accompanies it &amp; holds it, does not allow that in

contracting, it shrivels &amp; closes in on itself, but it must dry in the same state as when you put it there. Now

take heed that you choose for that effect cornflowers,

marigolds, the yellow meadow flowers called

ranunculus or palta

lupina, amaranth &amp; suchlike, and broom,

and others that your experience will teach you.

The sand with which goldsmiths buff enamels or the

white one that glassmakers use, &amp; any lean sand that does

not hold together, pass it through a horsehair sieve, for

it ought not to be so thin. Next, dry it well in the sun for

several days to remove all humidity from it, and

ventilate it like grain so that the dust goes away. Once it is

rid of that dust &amp; well dried, use it as you know.

Pansies are kept thus.

For keeping fruits all year

One needs to pick them in serain &amp;

s quite dry weather &amp; by the stem without

touching it the fruit with your hand, and

put them in glass bottles that have a wide

opening, like tall glass boxes for putting preserves.

Fortify them with straw or something else so that they may not

break, and seal them well with wax so that they may not breathe.

And if they had a glass lid, well-sealed with wax, they

would be all the better. Put them in a case in your

well, or in your cellar in a vat, or in a

cos of earth full of water.

For where the hand will touch, it will rot,

and it is even good not to breathe on them. You can also put in

leaves from vine.

For casting in silver

You need to arrange your animals as said and compose the same sand

two parts of out of 4 parts of

plaster, of two parts reheated brick, &amp; one

part reheated feather alum, and mix

it well. Then, having been prepared thus, and you wishing to mold it,

take the three parts of an earthenware bowl, from which

the peasants eat their soup, of the aforesaid

sand, &amp; add to it pure feather alum,

reheated &amp; pulverized in the mortar, as much as you

can take with 4 fingers and the thumb, or a

small double handful. Then, mix mix well &amp; wet

with a little sal ammoniac &amp; the rest of the common

water, + &amp; stir it with your spatula so

that it all becomes like a thick sauce or thin

mustard, &amp; having rubbed the animal with eau-de-vie with the

paintbrush, cast, &amp;

blow, and beat the table to shake the mold, &amp; do as

with others.

Do not forget to put in it crocum, for it prevents

the molds from cracking &amp; is appropriate for all

metals.

Alloyed silver is better for casting than the fine one, provided

that it is sweet.

One needs the feather alum to be well pulverized

and well mixed.

Sal ammoniac is a friend of gold &amp; of

silver.

which needs to be placed before the sand in the bowl,

which is put in the water, &amp; not the water in the

sand

Latten is the enemy of gold &amp; the friend of

silver.

Silver for casting

It is not fine silver but alloyed, &amp; which does not

become perfectly white on the fire because they put it to whiten after the

fusion to also clean it of the solder or of the. When

you need to attach some leg animal against another or to

repair, it is commonly teston silver. And all

alloyed silver, as long as it is sweet, is good.

Before starting to cast in silver, one needs to

have earth of which which withstands the fire, like

the sandy earth de qu mixed with cloth

waste which founders use to cast their cannons, or any

good lute which withstands the fire, in order to surround your

molds &amp; fortify them, for they must be all red. One

needs to also bind them with iron wire.

That before casting sil reheating the molds, you

have the mixture one needs to make the silver run.

If the goldsmiths knew knew the substance to make

silver run in their works, they would buy much of it. Some buy it five

sous for a denier.

I have used silver from the Capital

Before binding luting &amp; strengthening your molds

for gold &amp; silver with the aforesaid earth, one

needs for the cast to be made &amp; the vents, &amp; the molds

to have been reheated of very red to burn the animals,

flowers, and plants that are inside, &amp; to clean them well of the

ashes. Once quite clean &amp; prepared, lute them &amp; bind them

with iron wire, &amp; reheat them again until they will

be quite red.

Arranging various animals

When you uncover some female lizards writhing while biting each

other, &amp; which is the most difficult thing to mold

because of the number of feet &amp; because of the tip of their tails,

which are very fine, Il take heed that if some part should

trou be uncovered that remains as if

suspended in mid air to steady it, in order that the second cast, which

you will do on top for the second half, will not vary. And to steady it

over the void, take a little wax &amp; rub it, 

&amp; lengthen it on a table into the form of a thick needle, 

then cut that which you will need, &amp; with the tip of a hot iron wire, 

join it where it will be necessary. Steady also on the frame mold all that will

have detached from it (when you uncover the half of the belly) with

some wax, taken lightly with the point of a penknife,

&amp; joined &amp; melted with the iron wire. And when

you make your gate, you ought only to bring the wax to the place &amp;

to the edge of the wax which, being joined to the animal &amp;

melting, will continue the gate up to the animal without spoiling

anything, which is a secret.

    

One arranges snakes bound together in embraces of love,

but that is when they are small.

Flower in the mouth of the snake

If you want to put in the mouth of the snake some flower

q or some branch of a plant which contains the

antidote against its bite, take a little branch, as best

arranged as you can find, &amp; pose its stem into its mouth. Then put

two little pieces of wax around the stem of the plant. And with

the end of a iron wire that is hot, melt the

wax a little, &amp; with the other hand, close

the jaws of the animal. And then you can cut the head to make it burn

with the flower. If the plant s is strong enough, it

will hold up by itself, and should it be weak like wormwood

leaf, which droops, the dampness of the sand will lift it up, &amp; make

it swim &amp; hold up without putting anything there, although you could

pass underneath it some thread, going through with a

needle.

Cleaning the bowl and the spoon with which one

tempers the sand

Be careful to clean, as soon as &amp; quickly after you have cast,

your bowl &amp; your spatula or spoon with

which you temper your sand, because ’il if it dries in

them, it crumbles &amp; falls into the fresh sand &amp; makes a hole or

a fault in the work. Also, when the mold is reheated, these

little pieces crust up &amp; flake off &amp; prevent neat

casting.

Molding hollow

Wax on its own cools too quickly &amp; does not run well

everywhere, &amp; tallow keeps its heat well &amp; runs

everywhere, but on its own it is not good. But when wax &amp;

tallow are mixed, the work is all the better. Crayfish &amp;

other small animals can easily be molded hollow for the body, but as for

the legs, it will be awkward.

The first part of the mold, that is, the first cast on the

clay slab, cracks more readily in the fire than the

second.

Molding medals and flat things

You do not have to make the gate with legs thus

    

, but rather in this way

    

, which embraces the medal well. For the other way, with legs, is only

done to accommodate more delicate works and the other, which is

wide and in one piece, works better for flat medals. But take heed

that all gates be very thin close to the medal &amp; almost not as thick

as the medal, if it is not very thin like paper. And then, from

the medal toward the gate, thicken it as it goes, for it comes out better

thus. If the gate is thick at the entry to the medal, the work will

never come out well. Make sure that desp it is moderately 

thick from the half of the gate at the top, &amp; from the same

half at the bottom very thin. Do not forget to make grooves at

au hau the top of the gate to prevent that the

metal runs furiously.

A means di far correr

lotnegra

Take white arsenic, two ounces, 2

℥

Orpiment or yellow arsenic, two ounces, 2

℥

Aes ustum, two ounces, 2

℥

fine copper filings, moderately ground, 2

℥

Antimony, 2 ℥

Rock salt, 2 ℥

Raw tartar, 2 ℥

Sandiver, 2 ℥

Saltpeter, half, that is to say 1

℥

Coarse common salt melted, half, 1

℥

Sublimate, half, 1 ℥

Borax, half, 1 ℥

Sal ammoniac, as much as borax, that is to say 1

℥

Take these substances, of the best kind you can find. Weigh them as

said above, and pestle them separately, keeping your

face covered, over the nose &amp; the

mouth, from the eyes down, to avoid the exhalations of

arsenic, sublimate, and orpiment. Mix them well, all

together, then put them in a good crucible that is so large

that the substances can have the fourth or fifth part as empty space.

Cover the crucible with a good tile, adapted in a

circle precisely on its opening. And having bound it from top to bottom

and on the sides with iron wire quite strongly, lute it

with earth mixed with dung or founder’s earth that artillery

founders use. And in this, be careful &amp; diligent, &amp; do

not forget to mix in pestled glass throughout the lute to

fortify your crucible in such a manner that it takes no air, for the

substance would be worth little, because the 4

five last ingredients would be exhaled. 

Note that you need to lute well your crucible, in order that the

substances do not take air, for they are exhaled.

  

Lute well your crucible, in order that it does not break. For

if it breaks, the substances evaporate &amp; the fumes of it are

dangerous. If within 12 hours it is not melted

and mixed, it will not be well made. 

Goldsmiths who have knowledge of this substance sell a

denier of it for 5 sous to other

goldsmiths, &amp; especially to those who work in plate

and large wares, for at the end of their works, they can solder

over the first solder by means of this mixture. In general, all

those who want to mold &amp; cast something delicate. This material

should not be divulged, lest it be abused.

The grain is like broken steel.

Your lute being dry, put, in the early

morning, your crucible in a four à

vent, &amp; at the beginning, give slow fire, as much for

reheating your crucible as for gently letting the fury of the

saltpeter pass. Then, invigorate little by little &amp; with

judgment the fire. And there leave in the full vigor of the fire your

substances for 12 hours or a natural

day. Make each time a good quantity of this substance, so as not to

do it often, because the fumes, which are dangerous, could

hurt you. And before working at it, take in the

morning good buttered toast, and hold the

said butter, or zedoary, or gold coins, in

your mouth, and ada cover your

face with a cloth from the eyes down. From

this mass, the crust will serve you make run to

clear the great works of the silver from

the metallic mass like snakes &amp; similar

things when it starts to melt. But And

then, the grain that will be at the bottom of the

crucible should be put aside for principally delicate

flowers and herbs putting a little in the melted

silver when you want to cast it However it is necessary

to always put a little of this grain in the silver when you

want to cast it is well melted and when you are ready to

cast. Thus, do as you make fine tin on copper,

&amp; for looking-glass tin on lead and on tin.

And just as looking-glass tin sours lead and tin

too much if you put it in too great a quantity, likewise, the grain

composed of the aforesaid substances would sour your silver

if l you were to put in too much, and obscure it.

This aforesaid composition will suffice you for a long time, when

it has been for a whole day on a gentle

gentle fire at the beginning &amp; invigorated degree by degree until

the end. Then, having given it one load of charcoal, let it consume it

by itself, &amp; let your crucible cool. Next, break it. You

will find two hard slabs &amp; cakes in the

crucible. The upper one is as if petrified Once,

composed of salts, sublimated &amp; mixed together. The lower one

is metallic, composed of filings, aes

ustum &amp; antimony, having the grain very small.

Pulverize the upper cake, made from salts, &amp;

put some to clear, &amp; clean the silver, and the metallic

grain will serve you to put in the melted metal.

Charcoal fire

Or else after you have had your drugs pestled by some rustic. And

having put them in your crucible, &amp; the latter luted &amp;

dry as said &amp; placed into the furnace, have the fire

managed by a shop boy familiar with charcoal.

One sells well to silversmiths this metallic mass to

soften their solder, because when melting, latten exhales.

And with a little of this substance, they solder over the other

solder.

Animals with hair and fragile and very thin flowers

Animals with hair are awkward to mold because the hair is raised

&amp; is represented as though mixed up &amp; to clumped

together. Starting, one ought to keep it flat with something dessicative

&amp; that makes it firmer. And in this, the most singular thing is

wheat oil, with which you will anoint it. Once cast, you

will be able to repair it. The bodies of butterflies and

plants that have a stem &amp; leaves which are wooly with a certain

capricious &amp; downy hair, also need to be anointed with the same

oil, to keep this down flat; likewise flowers that have

very delicate &amp; thin leaves, for dry wheat oil makes

them rigid and firm. And if someone brags about molding what is

presented to them, give them to mold the downy head of the plant called

dandelion or a pappus, which comes from the

seeds of burdock &amp; flies away at the slightest sigh of

wind.

Noyaulx for molding hollow

Animals of gold &amp; silver can readily be molded

s hollow, to avoid weightiness and costs as well,

if they are not very small. But to make the core &amp; the

noyau, one needs the mold to be freshly molded &amp;

not dry.

Spider’s web

It comes undone in water &amp; thus cannot be molded 

en noyau, but one casts the spider and then one draws the

drawn threads between the grass that they make in the fields

on some quarton with a point. One makes

around it an edge of paper, glued to the

quarton &amp; one casts with tin, very little

alloyed with lead.

Fine gold 

There is a property of gold which, even though it is very fine

&amp; unalloyed &amp; has been passed through aquafortis &amp;

antimony, is nevertheless so brittle that it hardly withstands the

hammer. And the composition of verdet, described above to

make gold run, makes it as soft as

lead.

Rouge clair 

enamel

Fine gold is opposed to it, for  on it, it

remains yellowish. But alloyed gold is more appropriate for it,

such as that of écu &amp; pistolet. If

Gold f is not put back on the fire, with its

own pale color, renders the enamel a dead color.

Ma And for this occasion, once cut, one puts it back

on the fire to give it a reddish color, to make the enamels

beautiful. Otherwise, they are matte.

There is rouge clair which, once it is used with the

arene, loses its beauty.

Some can be found that have grains of gold inside, and it is

also the opinion of good goldsmiths that the good one is made

with gold.

Casting with gold

Molds are reheated better &amp; more surely in a closed

fire, such as pot in a reverberatory

furnace. So that when goldsmiths want to cast some

important piece of gold e that has cost a lot to model in

wax, they put the molds in a pot &amp; cover

them, &amp; fill the pot with earth, sustaining the fire

that holds them together &amp; tight. Then, they reheat the

mold, earth &amp; pot together, and when

everything is quite red, they cast the gold. Fine gold does

not run well, but alloyed gold does.

Gold &amp; silver do not sour, being 

entirely red and hot, quenched in water.

Gold is a quarter heavier than lead.

When gold reaches its perfect heat, it is green like an

emerald.

Take care that in the place where you want to cast the gold, no

lead, tin, or lime of these has fallen in the

forge.

A means to make the gate for small female lizards

Because you always have to make the gate by the tail, and because it is

uso delicate and thin that the gate would struggle

metal would run with difficulty, especially when it is curled,

roll wax in little threads of this thickness

    

and apply some with the hot iron wire, as is said, one at

the end of the tail &amp; the others, that are applied in the same way,

from one edge side of the tail to the other, as

you see depicted. But take heed to make sure that with the end of

the hot iron wire, the end of the wax barely touches

the animal, for the sand of the second cast will not touch this part.

But make sure that the end of the wax arranges itself only at the

edge of the empty part of the first mold. Make also conduits of

wax around the legs &amp; around the contours of the body which

are a little long, &amp; they will serve as feeders for the

molded thing.

Follow here above

🝋

When the tail, which is delicate and closer to the gate, comes out

well, the rest will also come out well.

The principal thing is that the ears of the snake come out

well-molded.

Your gate must be very thin at the entrance of the animal &amp; of the

thickness of a knife.

🝋 From small rolls, you make your gates and vents without danger of

crusting &amp; removing anything from the mold, because the

wax, being taken away, leaves the empty space all made. Make

your vents coming from the head, which is in the bottom, toward the

gate. Make also your gate so that it is too but a

little thick, and make within its course two or three notches, for

this breaks up the fury of the metal and makes it flow with ease,

without bubbling nor making excessive fumes, which hinders its run. You

can divide it also in two or three branches thus

    

when it approaches the molded thing, and always make holes in the

gate.

&amp; from these conduits &amp; feeders, you can also

put in small threads of wax which are joined to the body, in

order that the metal goes more easily from one part to another

&amp; promptly runs everywhere. And from these conduits, you lead your

gate &amp; your vents without spoiling anything.

Plaster

When you v mold something to cast wax in it, you

mold in plaster alone, reheated after being pulverized.

For, once reheated in stone, the outside is cooked &amp; the

inside stays almost raw. Transparent grey plaster is not strong, but the one

that, being tempered, is white &amp; sets very

quickly, is good. However, the grey I have found to be quite firm &amp; hard

after having set, but its takes longer to do so. One needs to know the

nature of each. If you You will never mold very neatly if

ne you do not temper, very thin &amp;

liquid, your plaster or your sand of noyau. Temper it

immediately quickly after it has been reheated.

+

If you mold with plaster raw alone, reheat it

nevertheless as said. One needs to oil well the first

mold. And when the second one has set well, and it is ready,

soak it for a long time in water. And if it does not want to

release, soak it in hot water, for cold water hardens it.

And hot water softens it further. Cold water does not

penetrate it like it does with the mixed one, because it is harder &amp;

the mixed one is more spongy. 

    

With this plaster, thus reheated as

powder, one can cast medals that do not fear the rain,

especially if they are varnished. One can find these in

Germany, on the houses. But take heed that the water be

very hot, &amp; if it is boiling, there is no danger. All

plaster molds, alone or mixed, release in it.

Scimitars

To know

The workers from Damascus or from

Hungary, neighbors to the Turks, separate, in the

ore, iron from steel. And, from this

first steel, first melted from its ore, they

cast scimitar blades in sand sab which afterward cut the other iron without any difficulty,

because any melted iron is harder than soft iron

beaten from pigs &amp; bars. Thus is the steel of scimitars, but

it is quite brittle. When one un-hilts b a scimitar,

one recognizes by the tang that enters the hilt that it is cast in

sand.

Hearing from afar

Make a small hole in the earth, &amp; place your ear fully

there, at night or at a silent time, &amp; you will easily

hear the noise.

Vipers and snakes

I molded a viper, which, for casting, is more appropriate than

any other snake because it has scales beautiful &amp; very

visible on all the body &amp; principally on the head and under the

throat. It has a flat head, the snout reddish, tending toward

incarnadine, &amp; snubbed like the horned asp or like

un the top of a pig's snout, big jowls, the

eyes very close to the snout, and the mouth wide open, where it

has double canine teeth on each side, all coming out of a

strip of flesh that covers and clothes them. It also has, in the throat,

a tube of flesh, made like a dog’s penis, from which comes its

stinger. Other snakes have a double row of teeth.

If you want cut the to mold the snakes

with the mouth open, you must cut off the head &amp; leave it inside, for

it will not be released.

Molding turtles

It is a matter different from the casting of snakes, &amp;

plants, and flowers because the cavities that are between the two shells

require several pieces. They are molded in plaster to be cast in

sugar without making a gate as do all things that you

want.

Plaster for casting of wax

When you want to cast in wax in the plaster mold,

you must know as secret that there is need for your mold to be

in hot water. Never does the animal come out so neatly than in

metal, because the wax sticks. But it is to model an

animal as close to nature, et to repair

it afterward. One needs to smooth well away all the scales, when for

wax would enter there &amp; not release well. In molding thus

the animal, flatten down the scales for wax &amp;, on

the contrary, rub them in reverse in order that they stand up for

animals, for they will only be more visible. Also, do not wait for the

wax to a bit cool completely to release it,

but do so when it is still a bit warm. When you have also molded the

first cast of the animal, uncover well the half, in order that, in its

release, there is as much of it in one half of the mold as in the other. Make also strong wide gates, close to the animal, in order that it is fortified

when it is released, &amp; afterward you cut this off.

+ 

Alabaster, commonly called so, which is nevertheless

plaster, is very hard but it shrinks a lot. It is very good to

make medals, but it wants to be very finely sieved.

Molding fruits and animals in sugar

Sugar is fatty when runny and brittle &amp; breakable

when dry, and with it, one casts well round things &amp; large

muscles, but awkwardly things fine &amp; delicate. However, try well-clarified sugar. One needs to soak for one night

or one day the plaster mold before

casting the sugar, in order that it is very full of water

&amp; does not imbibe the syrup. One needs also for it to be of

easy release, for the sugar is sour &amp; brittle. Finally, do

not consider casting anything in sugar that does not release well

and that cannot be neatly molded in two halves, to open it when you will

need to. If you want to mold a bunch of grapes, one needs to

take it, like any other fruit, in its true vigor, for if it is withered,

it will ne come out that way. Take heed, therefore,

to make your molds in the natural season of

que all things. The grapes that are

usually wanted cast in sugar can be made artificially or with

wax or earth, or even with some grapes attached

with some melted wax on some slab &amp; other full

thing, so that they are very close together and release well, &amp; only

make up one half. Or, if you have some of those grapes called

chauchés or sauvignons, which have the grapes

very close together, encase half of them on in the

clay slab and cast on the other half. And if some 

grape is not released, pluck it out. Note that neither in

sugar, nor in metal, can a bunch which has light &amp;

separated grapes be cast properly, because the end of the bunch

is so delicate, especially if the grapes are kept, that it could not

sustain the large grapes. Thus, you will need to cast

hollow, which you could not do if the bunch does not have the

grapes close together &amp; molds without having them

scattered &amp; spread apart.

To cast pears &amp; apples in sugar, one ought

not to make any gates, but rather, fill one half of the mold and

then join the two, and keep turning it until the sugar has set

and is cold. One ought to mix nothing in the mold apart from

plaster, reheated as you know.

+

One needs for the mold to have soaked one day

and one night in cold water for, and

to be humid, when you cast in sugar.

The sign that the syrup or the sugar melted in water is sufficiently

cooked to cast fruits, is when it makes threads when shaking it. And

if it passes that point, it is not good, for it will always be humid. If

the sugar attaches to it, one needs to throw some

wheat starch in the mold or rub it with an

almond.

Crocum ferri

It is much sooner made with iron rust than with

filings. For if the vinegar is good, you will

see it boil with large bubbles as if it on the rust,

as if it were on the fire; on the filings, it does not boil

unless it is put on the fire or hot ashes. However, when the

filings are passed through vinegar, &amp; you have made it

evaporate &amp; heat up, &amp; it is very red, if you do this again for a

second time, the vinegar will have much more strength, &amp; the

crocum will only be finer for it, &amp; redder. Those who

use it to cast in gold ven buy the

ounce for forty or fifty sous.

It does not harden the molds, and, in scraping, one cannot tell

that they are harder from it. But it makes the mold less dense,

and it drinks in and attracts the gold better.

Plaster

You can mold with it as large a piece as you please. But if you take

your molds from large works &amp; pieces of wood, it

will not release well unless you boil make your wood

imbibe very hot wax. For the wood absorbs &amp; drinks

&amp; in this way attracts the plaster. You can assume the same

thing for any other large piece of work. But the cure is to

l’ab saturate l’ouvra with very

hot wax the work on which you want to cast your plaster. For

by this means, it will not drink it up &amp; will release very

neatly.

If the plaster shrinks, it will always make flashing. Seek the hard

kind and it put your molds well in the press before

casting.

It is not good when it

shrinks.

Plants difficult to burn in the noyau

Any plant which has a hard stem &amp; like wood is very

difficult to burn in the noyau, such as asparagus,

thyme, &amp; similar things, because they stay as charcoal

in the small conduits, &amp; if they do not reduce well into

ashes, it is not possible to empty them from the mold.

Some reheat them, to do this, two or d three

times. Others, putting several plants together in the mold,

pass through threads the plants &amp; thees

molds circle of earth,

which is to receive the tempered sand, plusi

This does not proceed from plants that have a stem with lines, because

rosemary burns well, but it is in the nature of certain

plants.

some threads, as much to secure the plants, in order that they do not

rise par when you throw in your clear sand, as to

give them venting when the mold is reheated. For, in doing this,

the mold thread burns &amp; leaves some

empty space around the plants, which serves as vents &amp; places for

evacuating, &amp; to give air to the plants so that they burn better.

For what makes them stay as charcoal is that they burn in a

closed fire &amp; without empty space because of their fine sprigs. Try,

therefore, to thicken the main stem with a little melted wax,

&amp; let it cool, then mold it. And when the wax melts, it airs

it, the principal stem, with space &amp; as if loose so that it burns

better. Or else, anoint them with oil of petrol or

sulfur, of turpentine, oil of

brick &amp; similar things, or aquafortis or

eau-de-vie, or make sands with crocum, iron

scales, loops of iron, emery &amp; things that

withstand several days of great firing.

Animal bones are not so difficult to burn &amp; reduce to

ashes, because once the flesh is burnt, the bones

remain loose &amp; the weight of the quicksilver makes them break

&amp; disintegrate, once calcined &amp; burnt.

Asparagus always stays as charcoal, like little pins.

Try to take it, and thyme, at the beginning, when they are

growing, so that their stem is still thin.

Molds of plaster for wax

When your mold of plaster is done &amp; dried, take

heed that your mold be of good release, for sometimes it

happens that the animal, being wounded or thin &amp; withered, makes

wrinkles, where retire its scales are, where the plaster enters. And this not being of good release,

the wax animal would attaches itself &amp; break &amp; you would never

have it perfect. Take heed also to make your gates for the

wax very wide. Thus, &amp; the gates should not be too thick.

They are made when the animal is

 the molds have been made from both sides &amp; the animal is

outside of it.

Founders’ earth

It is terre bolvene mixed with dung or

cloth waste, which withstands fire, which you need to always have

provision of to lute your molds that ont

b are meant to serve for casting silver &amp; that one needs to

reheat. Those where one needs to burn some flower or animal should not

be luted until they have been reheated once, and they have been cleaned

of bones &amp; ashes remaining inside, and, having removed 

the clamps, you have opened the two halves to see if

they are cracked. For there is plaster that is not so

hard in the fire, one as the other. Moreover, there is some

which makes crusty the things which stay burning inside. And these are

imperfections that one needs to avoid, either by by bathing

well with eau-de-vie the animal before casting in the tempered sand,

or mixing in more or less brick or alum, or reheating the

brick more, or in place of the brick, mixing in

crucible bottoms &amp; similar things which resist well

in the fire. Having therefore reheated your mold to burn it

inside, leave to cool well. And if it is neat &amp; not cracked, put

the clamps back &amp; lute it with this aforesaid

founders’ earth &amp; sprinkle a little sifted ash

&amp; let dry a little. But keep yourself from luting that they are

not until the molds are cold. Those for casting

silver, where there is nothing to burn inside, only need, except

when the gate &amp; vents are made, luting &amp; reheating once. Do not

lute the end of the mold where you want to make your gate,

but leave it uncovered &amp; the exit of the vent as well. 

If the molds that were

do to crack, it is made thus at the

first reheating, for at the second, they no longer crack.

The smallest molds are reheated more quickly.

Take the, therefore, the first reheated ones when you cast, for

you can put several of them to reheat.

Light the charcoals first, in the forge or in some other

place nearby, &amp; having placed your molds on a layer of good

embers, not burning too much, to have a slow fire at the beginning, put

there &amp; adjust a little the half-lit charcoals in the

forge.

The earth that founders use to braze or solder, which

is sandy clay earth, or else clay mixed with sand, after

having dried &amp; sieved &amp; then composed it, is good for

luting your molds because this earth melts rather than

cracks. And any earth that melts is cannot be lacking

in this.

Iron wire to give it bond.

    

Lute thickly your molds, &amp; if they are small, you can

reheat them immediately in a good fire, especially those of

crocum.

If the earth is good, &amp; l does not crack

while reheating, &amp; does not separate from the mold, the

molds will also not crack &amp; will not make flashing at the

casting. Reheat with slow ease in a closed fire, &amp; do not expose them

hot to the air.

Lute rather thickly in two or three layers, especially right in the

joints, in order that the silver does not come out of the

mold. 

Reheat in a reverberatory furnace.

To test if your earth is good, before putting it on your

mold, lute at the place of the fo wall of

the forge which is around the blast-pipe &amp;

barrel of the bellows, &amp; light the fire, &amp; if it withstands

this without cracking, it will be good.

Casting in silver and gold

Wanting to melt, always put for these two metals

a small stone of pulverized borax at the bottom of

the crucible &amp; the gold and silver on top.

This makes it so that if the crucible gives off some vapor or

sour fumes, it will not impair these two metals. For

gold in particular, this is good.

If you have several molds to cast, do not think of filling them

in one cast, for the metal would be cold. But having cast while

hot &amp; filling one, remelt &amp; cast in the other. 

When your mold starts to redden on the inside, &amp;

when the cast loses its blackness, then put your &amp; when

looking inside the cast you you do not see

plas a single point of blackness,

continue to maintain it in this heat &amp;, if need be, add in some half-lit charcoals with your pincers. However,

com put in the forge your

crucible with a little ground borax at the bottom, &amp;

the silver that you want to cast in your

forge should be on top, letting your

crucible reheat between the lit charcoals

jus without blowing until it is red, for

before, one ought not to blow. And when you do blow, push in a longish

&amp; continuous movement the bellows, giving them a little

shake when pushing &amp; another when pulling toward you. In this way,

the heat becomes stronger. Com

NeTake heed to raise sometimes your

crucible with the with hot pincers, 

becauseil if it is placed right in front of the

blast-pipe &amp; the bellow b

wind builds the wind of the bellows hits

the crucible, it will cool your silver rather than

heating it. Make sure that the lit charcoals support it from above the

blast-pipe, &amp; take care that it is at a distance of

three good fingers from the wall of the

forge. In this way, it heats better. Therefore, when your

silver starts to melt, if you recognize that it is brittle,

seeing cracked &amp; burst lumps, take the size of a

hazelnut of arsenic &amp; two times as much of

raw tartar, coarsely pulverized, for in this way, they have more

ability to heat. And occasionally throw it in the crucible on the

silver, which clarifies it. But if you have some of that crust sublimated on a metal substance, which looks like

grain of steel, as previously described, take a little

of that, leaving # the others, &amp; throw it

on your melted silver.

Some let the silver rest a little outside before casting.

Gold and silver, melted with the aforesaid things, scarcely

become porous.

For gold, one does not need das much

tin crocum as feather alum.

Small molds are reheated quickly, but big &amp; small ones

should dry beforehand in the furnace, for the humidity of the

mold, by thee fo heat of the

furnace, is attracted outside. But the fierce heat of the

charcoals chases it from the exterior through the inside.

All alloyed silver produces film, and all other

metal as well.

Silver does not want to be uncovered when melted.

# Coarsely pulverized

A lump of adulterated silver vitrifies in red because of the

arsenic &amp; orpiment.

You will see that it will torment it &amp; heat it very well and soon

render it very liquid &amp; ready to cast and be clarified, as it should

be. When it is in this state &amp; when it is very white and polished,

shining like quicksilver, prepare yourself to cast. And to this

effect, have some lean delicate sand, in a

terrine or another vessel, that you would

like to help yourself to. Make a pit in your sand, then, with your

pincers, take your well-reddened mold &amp; place it

in this pit of sand. Cover immediately the opening of your mold

in order that no ash &amp; dust enters inside, &amp; then

enclose it with sand up to the edge of the gate &amp; the vents. This done,

uncover your mold &amp; throw on top of your well-melted

silver, the size of a pea or thereabouts, some

of this metallic grain, which will immediately spread through

all your silver &amp; make it boil &amp; turn. Cast as soon as

you have put in this substance, for it is this that is the secret to

making the silver run, since its crust heats it &amp; clarifies

it. You can cast silver finer than the alloy from the capital

and like that of the real, but you must add this

grain in.

With all of this, do not let yourself forget to put, before all things,

a little borax in the melted silver, for even though

goldsmiths do not put any in, nevertheless it is good, and I have

seen it practised well. Next, one puts in the crust of the substance at

two different times &amp; then the metallic thing. Then make sure  that

it be placed at the end of your forge.

If you want to blow the ash that is around your mold when

you hold it between the pincers, hold it with the opening at

the bottom, &amp; blow.

When silver is well melted, you can uncover it and blow with the

small bellows, not continually like with gold, but only

to cast out the charcoals in order to put in the substances that

make it run.

Whitening of cast silver

Because one commonly casts in base silver, &amp; especially the

Germans, and that such an alloy readily makes a film

or crust, which is contrary to our some

goldsmiths from France are usually quick

to whiten their works, especially rough ones, because they only

use common bullitoyre, which is tartar &amp;

common salt, nearly as much of one as the other. But I

have seen an excellent German working thus. Having in my

presence cast a little lizard with an alloy of

teston, he made a greyish noi crust.

And to clean it from it, he boiled it in the above-mentioned

bullitoyre of tartar &amp; pulverized

common salt and mixed with common water, in the

fire of his forge. Once taken out, he brushed it. And

because it was not as clean of this crust as he fancied, he burned some

tartar in some paper until it was

black &amp; no longer smoked. Then, he wetted the aforesaid tartar

d with the water of bullitoyre,

composed of salt &amp; tartar, &amp; covered all his

lizard with it. Then, he put it between the live of

charcoals of his forge &amp; blew a little. When the

lizard was red, he took it out, let it cool, then reheated it

in the bullitoyre. Next, he brushed it in

clear water. 

+

Note that the bullitoyre for silver is never good

in a crucible because the water, taking the form of the

f tartar, evaporates. But the vessel

for boiling, being of copper, is excellent for the whitening of

silver &amp; for the mixture which colors gold.

He took heed not to let his water of tartar boil so much that it

would have poured out on top, because then its strength goes away. Therefore, when this first fury of boiling comes, remove it from the fire &amp; put it

back. He held as a secret this burned tartar put on top for

base silver.

Painting plants of metal

If you are in a hurry, it would be better to mix your color with a

not-too-thick gum or because oil takes a

long time to dry and runs if it is layered thinly,

as the plants require. And if you still want it done promptly,

temper your color with glair beaten with peelings of the fig tree, 

and your work will soon be dry. But layer it

thinly.

For wormseed

 The pallid white of this herb is made from vert de terre,

white lead or ceruse, a bit of massicot, stil de

grain yellow, and cendré of azure. Mix &amp; compose

your color according to a natural branch that you will have.

Viper color

It is the most beautiful snake that can be molded, because it

has very beautiful scales, &amp; hard &amp; transparent. Its true color

is made with good verdigris ground well with some good

vinegar, if it is of lead or tin. And if it is in some

place darker, fumigate this first color with sulfur, as you

know. And if one needs to lighten and whiten, like under the throat, rub

with coarse linen. The male ejects from its

nature, which is at the bottom, when it is

firmly pressed, a little mass like half an arquebus ball

made in the genitals and full of very venomous spurs.

+ Put a bit of metalline in your

tin &amp; your lizard will resemble silver.

Molded roses

They are awkward to mold because the petals are very fine &amp; weak

&amp; doubled. But, to obl avoid this, one needs to

anoint them with wheat oil, which is very dessicative. And having

quickly dried, it firms &amp; stiffens the petals to be able to separate

them &amp; withstand the tempered sand. The same is done with flies,

with pansies &amp; similar delicate things, with flowers from

the caper plant.

Animals dried in the oven for a long

time

Plant them on a slab of earth, arranging them with

points of iron wire, as if you wanted to mold them, and

they dry them in an oven after the bread

has been taken out. And they always remain thus, as much for

snakes, as birds and other things. But it is

necessary that they be dried promptly.

Note that one needs to give them their shape &amp; put them in the sand,

as with flowers, &amp; promptly dry them in the oven, which is

hot enough, like when one takes out the bread. And it

should stay there a day &amp; a night in order that

it is chau dry, for otherwise it would be

smelly. However, take heed that the oven not be too

harsh, but rather like the heat of the sun in

June, otherwise the animals cook. Once dry, do not

wet them, but clean them with a paintbrush or clean them

with a brush.

Animals cast in copper

Try, d having cast them in copper, to burnish

them like gemstone foils, to see if they take color

similarly.

Advice concerning the gate

Ne Be careful to not make your gate very wide, and do not

forget to make in its conduit two or three holes and notches, &amp; as

your gate approaches the ch molded thing, divide it

into three or four parts like fingers which are pointed &amp;

are not very deep. For the metal runs more gently without being

hindered by vapors &amp; fumes.

Always make the entry of your gate near the medal notched &amp; lumpy,

to draw out the fury of the metal.

Spider molded on a leaf

The very big ones usually have hairy feet, which are

vexing to mold if you do not lay them flat, or burn them with a

candle, or stiffen them &amp; lay them flat with

some, anointing them with wheat oil. Kill

them in vinegar &amp; urine, like snakes

&amp;, or in eau-de-vie, and then shape them on a

well-made vine leaf or other thing. Next, you can give them back their

capricious hair with bourr the sieved

fine hair of cloth waste, having anointed them with a with

fish glue or similar. Their true color is of

vinegar &amp; verdet, &amp; then fumigate them in various

places with sulfur. Having made your tourt

clay slab, place on it your vine leaf, and the

dead spider in the middle, &amp; pierce with a point of

iron or latten wire the middle of the spider’s body

&amp; the leaf together. Next, place diagonally small points of

latten wire around the vine leaf to secure it well.

Then fix, with a little melted wax and the point of a hot

iron wire, the end of the legs, adapting them with the end

of small pincers. Do the same thing with the end of the

small cornicles of the spider. Return 🜊

    

To make the gate for the spider on the leaf and to

prevent the sand from covering the spider from underneath the

belly, furnish the end of the tail &amp; the bottom of the body with a

little wax, melted &amp; applied with the hot iron

wire, as you know. In this way, when the leaf burns &amp; the

wax is melted, there will remain two little holes in the leaf

which will be the gate of the spider.

🜊

Once the wax is cool, scrape the excess with the point of a

penknife in order that the end of the legs stay neat. Next,

place the circle of earth around &amp; cast your tempered

sand, like for other things. In this manner, you will need to burn the

vine leaf in the mold, otherwise not. And to cast more

easily, let the animal die fully, in order that, when struggling, it does

not mix up its legs. Having made your first cast, uncover the reverse of

the leaf and make the second cast.

Animals dried in an oven

Small s cats are skinned and one

removes their eyes &amp; all their entrails. One puts a small

stick vertically between their teeth to make them open their mouths

wide. Then with iron points one attaches their feet to a

small board, giving them the fitting attitude &amp; gait. Once

thus attached by their feet with small rings of iron

wire thus, one needs to suspend them in the sun

with the backbone downward. In this manner they take

&amp;d their shape &amp; dry, &amp; the belly

tightens &amp; the tail remains high or with the bend that you will

have given it. Once a little dry by this means, one turns the head

as one wants, securing it with some tool. Then one finishes drying it in

an oven when the bread is drawn. Next, one places in the

hollow of the eyes balls of lead or of wax, painted

according to nature. One paints them with well-gummed ink so that

they seem to be jet. One gives it a painted tongue, horns, wings &amp;

similar fancies. Thus for rats &amp; all animals.

    

which, surrounding the fingers of the paws, stick in

the jacket of clay.

For reddening live crayfish, which will seem

boiled

Rub them in quite good vinegar in which there should be a

little eau-de-vie &amp; hardly any, &amp; they can be served as

cooked &amp; will move around.

Molding a single spider

One needs to plant it on the clay slab, as has been

said, on a vine leaf, and make there your first cast; &amp; once

it has set, uncover the spider up to half its legs, then make the

second cast.

In order The hairy feet of large

spiders, like any animal hair, does not mold well if it is not

flattened, having anointed it with wheat oil, which

stiffens it &amp; is quickly dry. Hairy things mix with the sand &amp;

do not burn well.

Molding a single vine leaf

Plant it with the points of fine iron latten

wire &amp; place diagonally on the clay slab,

then cast the first mold. When it has set, uncover the

back reverse &amp; make the second cast, which once set, you

can take away the leaf. And you will need to reheat your mold

only once, because there will be nothing to burn.

Molding a crab

It is a secret and a masterpiece to mold it well, because one needs

to proceed differently than with other animals, because its shell is

very difficult to mold burn &amp; in this case, one

le needs to sometimes reheat the mold three

or four times. And with all of this, it leaves a hard crust, grey like

ash. But because it does not mold in one piece &amp; one cast

like plants, but rather in two casts like snakes that release

well, one removes this crust, not with quicksilver, which

would do nothing, after it

has been opened, with the very fine point of a penknife with

dexterity, as with the little crusts of the second cast, which enter in

the nooks that the sand or the molded animal made. But,

la because it has curved legs, here is the cunning &amp; secret for releasing it. Therefore, as you have molded it on

one side, which is on the back, in the same fashion as others, uncover its

belly &amp; all its curved legs. Make your second cast in the same fashion

as others, but as it will have set, keep from opening the mold

until you have first reheated it well. Otherwise, because of its curved

legs, you would break everything. In this lies the dexterity. If you

recognize, after having reheated &amp; opened it, that the crust is not

burned enough, reheat until it is.

It is painted like a crayfish.

Know that For opening the mold, there is

no need to soak it, for once reheated, it will open by itself.

Stag beetle

It is as difficult to burn as a crab, therefore do for it

as you did for the crab.

For molding thin

After you have molded en noyau la

e figur the first mold, let it dry well

before taking away the figure of wax, in order in order

that the mold does not corrupt. Next, make a small lasagna of

paste of such thickness as you would like, and having anointed

with butter your the hollow of your first hollow

mold, adapt the paste to it, and then make your second

mold on top. If you were to anoint with oil, it would be

absorbed &amp; would not be as appropriate as butter.

Plants that are awkward to burn in the mold

Mold them with two or three casts, which, once reheated, will open,

&amp; it will be easier for you to take away the charcoal from

inside.

Trial

Letters and molded paper

Write with well gummed ink or with any color which has body

&amp; which does not erase once moistened with eau-de-vie.

Then, place your paper on a clay slab &amp;

moisten it with eau-de-vie and cast on one side &amp; the

other.

For adorning beds, mirrors, and

suchlike

Rough out some design in half relief on a quite flat

slate to adapt it to either round or flat things. And having

cast it in mixed tin, quite thin, you can gild it with

gold leaf &amp; adapt it to whatever you want, and fill the

vui bottom of the relief with small rubies,

orpiment &amp; little grains of diverse colors.

For teaching a dogei well

It is necessary to keep it tied up, &amp; when it does what you

command it, to make it love you, give it some cheese that has

been held under your armpit. Which must be a bad drug, &amp; for

the master, if he is red-haired, &amp; for the apprentice

too.

Molded waxes

Figures of wax composed of ceruse &amp; lead

white are not for burning &amp; melting in a mold where you

want to cast gold &amp; silver, for this would sour it.

And then, if you think about taking away these waxes composed of

things coming from the metals reheated in the mold, you

will be wrong, because, the asperity of the fire making them boil

ir, the wax goes away &amp; the composition

of the ceruse or other metallic color attacks the mold.

And for this reason, if you want to rough out something

+

Nota

White wax is more delicate than the other &amp; it does not leave

any filth when you want to make noyau and mold

hollow.

in a round form to cast it in gold and silver, put

only in your wax what you prepare for this effect

sino from all these drugs, except casting with

melted sulfur, since it is melted, &amp; candle

smoke. The melted sulfur goes to the bottom and nevertheless

leaves its quality in the wax, making it melt promptly in the fire

&amp; giving it firmness. In this way, you can melt in the fire this

roughed out ci figure of wax. But if it is

composed of ceruse or suchlike, it is necessary that you

put your mold in boiling water.

For figures of flat wax, there is no need for all this, for the

wax releases &amp; does not stay in the la

mold.

When the cast of tin or lead becomes porous

If your cast work has become porous, it can be repaired with very hard

wax which you can gild afterward with silver or

gold. To prevent this, if you cast thin, the alloy of one

℥ d’est of lead for

one lb of tin is good. But if you cast with lead

for a thick thing, one needs for one lb of the

latter, two ℥ of tin, for the

lead, being fatty &amp; weighty, carries more. From this alloy, I

cast a large lizard like a natural one. In thick things,

if which keep their heat a long time, if there is little

tin, it makes it porous. Your mold must not be cold, but

of such a heat that you can handle it without harm, or that you can

keep your finger in the gate without burning yourself.

It is also necessary that your lead or tin be as if red.

Melt first the lead &amp; then the alloy of tin on top.

And as you want to cast, put a piece of rosin &amp; then a

little looking-glass tin. If you put too

much lead into the tin, it does not run very thin. And to know

this, if l the tin cries loudly,

it is a sign there is not too much lead. If it cries weakly, that

means that is there is too much. Take heed

You can solder with the l’es same substance,

then repair it with the burin, file,

chaple &amp; suchlike.

Tin is a metal that penetrates, that becomes porous &amp;

burns, and is fanciful to use, more than gold and

silver.

Lead wants not only to be red, but also lively &amp; runny &amp;

liquid as water, which is a sign of its perfect heat, &amp; the

mold ch is so hot that you can bear putting

your finger in it. Do not open until it is

cooled. It is a sign of a good cast, as much for it as for gold

&amp; silver, when it exits by the vents.

not to open your mold too hot, for this sours it, makes it

porous &amp; contracts the tin, &amp; makes the molded thing

break. Also, do not quench your hot mold in water, for

this makes the le met tin or lead

contract.

Mold made in two casts

It is opened, once reheated, to clean it; next, one puts the

clamps on again, one lutes the mold &amp;

especially the joints, then one slowly dries the earth. And then,

as it no longer smokes, one leaves the mold to cool until you can

hold it without harm. Next, put in the presses or in the sand

in a terrine, &amp; cast in tin. For if you

were to cast in silver or gold, it would be necessary that

your mold be reheated twice &amp; cast when it would be completely 

red.

If your mold f, through the fault of the

plaster, retracts in the fire, you need to open it

after the first reheating to tighten it again, &amp; clamp it

and lute again, and tighten again.

Method for reheating the molds

Light charcoals in the forge, &amp; then arrange

them in rows in a corner of it, according to the size of your

mold, in such a way that it can be furnished with three or 4

fingers all around, and especially at the bottom of

the mold, which is the thickest and which. Your

charcoals thus arranged, place your molds on top of

them, &amp; not on a grate, as some do, because they

would take the fire too harshly. And leave for some time thus, &amp;

little &amp; by little, warm your oven, always adding some lit

charcoal. And as long as the mold is damp, the

charcoals will be as if died down from below. But as it dries,

they will kindle by themselves. And when it is dry on one side, turn it to

the other. And when it is dry on both, &amp; it will no longer smoke. At

that moment, invigorate the fire &amp; cover it with lit

charcoals. And as it will begin to redden, do not blow the

charcoals with the little bellows, for this would make it

blow burst. And similarly, when it is red, keep it well

covered with lit charcoals &amp; do not uncover it, for it would

crack. Make sure wind from a window does not beat upon it. Let

cool

When you want to reheat your molds, &amp; be they

luted or not, mark on the belly the place to put at the bottom,

against the lit charcoals, que because if the

ardor of the fire were to make them crack, it would be better that this be

at the belly &amp; from underneath than on the back.

If your mold is small, one ought not to leave it

rest so much in the fire, for it corrupts and cracks there,

for it reheats more quickly than a big one.

by itself. When it begins to redden, it is soon red everywhere.

But make sure, through the gate, that it is red at the bottom &amp; that

nothing appears black.

Common sand from the mine

In a frame, if one casts hot, it becomes porous; therefore,

one only needs to dry it out.

Crocum ferri

Having d passed it through vinegar &amp;

reddened it in the fire, I had it finely ground on porphyry,

until no roughness was perceived on the fingernail. Then,

I wet it with very good vinegar &amp; 

left it therea two or three days, stirring

it several times each day. Finally, I boiled it

&amp; reddened in the pot &amp;

crocum all together in the four à

vent. It came back in a mass full of small bubbles, but that

can be pulverized very finely between the fingers. I

put some in the sand, a half as much as

feather alum. I tempered the sand quite thinly &amp; molded

out of it a very small female lizard, which molded very neatly &amp;

delicately &amp; very finely. The crocum ferri does not

render the mold harder, but it firms it. And when your

mold is soft &amp; fatty when scraping it with the

fingernail, it is a sign that the crocum is

good, very fine, &amp; well prepared. The quantity cannot spoil the

mold, because it is a friend to gold. And I believe that

silver would come out well. And that the mold, through

this means, does not crack. Make it from filings of

needles.

        

I have tried to make it so the molds where it is mixed do not crack

during reheating &amp; thus do not make flashing.

    

        

It is better made with distilled vinegar.

One can put some amongst the molds, where you want to cast

silver, for it firms the molds, and you will find it so,

by scraping a little harder than the other where there is none. It molds

very neatly.

This one is appropriate for all molds &amp; keeps them from

breaking &amp; bursting in the fire. And for flat medals, it withstands

several casts. The one of steel fillings &amp; needles is redder

&amp; better.

Gilding animals cast in silver

You can gild them with amalgam without spoiling any

of the features, if they are made of silver.

Hard wax for imprinting seals

It is made from white wax, which is harder than the other,

&amp; one mixes in very finely ground ceruse or lead white until

it becomes as hard as you fancy u, adding to it a

drop of turpentine to bind it. Next, mix in whatever

color you want. This is the wax goldsmiths use for

modeling.

Feet of smalls female lizards for

gold and silver

Because the feet of these, which are very small, are very delicate,

when you have molded the top and d you uncover the belly

&amp; the bottom of the feet, cover them lightly with wax &amp;

then cast the second mold. And the wax being removed, it

will leave a g little gate for the said feet. And

should the bottom of these come off in one piece, you can repair it well. And

the scales from the top of the toes will come out well.

At the end of the nails of large lizards, place

make on each one a little circle of wax, to make the

gate thus:

Marks from the points of iron wire which are found

on the head of the animal

L With the points, one has previously

set the stance, especially that of the head. But the head being pierced,

there remains around the hole some moisture and a little exudation,

which hinders the sand from covering the point &amp; there

always remains some little opening g. But to avoid

this, you can plant in the slab of earth an

iron point, arro cleaned &amp;

rounded at the top end, &amp; on this end place there a little hard

wax or du a little mastic or

cement and, by means of the hot iron

wire, hold in place the throat of the animal, which can be removed

when you come to uncover the belly &amp; the throat to make the second

cast.

Clamps and broken mold

When you have made the first reheating &amp; removed the

clamps, and you have the opened your mold

to clean it by blowing with quicksilver, which is used only in

enclosed molds, close the mold again &amp; put the

clamps on again, but not in the first place where they were.

Lute again &amp; dry again. But if it is for a cast with

silver or gold, lute with the remainder of the sand

that was used, for it is the safest. If your mold, while

reheating, is broken, you can adjust it with some clamps &amp;

lute.

X

Bubbles and little holes which are found in the

mold

This readily comes about when you cast two or three small

molds, one after the other, in the same bowl, for the last

one is cast from the bottom &amp; thickest of the bowl,

which readily becomes porous. The thinnest casts more finely &amp; more

neatly, provided that one blows strongly enough when casting on the tempered

&amp; cast sand in order to dissipate these small bubbles.

When the sand is cast thickly, it readily becomes porous

Thing that does not release

One needs to cut it to make it burn in the mold, but cut it

with chisels in one go, in order that the blood does

not fall on the mold &amp; does not create filth, which,

once reheated, is difficult to remove. Next, put your mold in

the oven or similar heat, in order that it dries promptly &amp;

retracts before making a crust or mold on the

mold.

+

When you mold small female lizards and you want to uncover the part

first molded, begin to uncover the heads &amp; you will recognize its

place by the pin. Do not attempt to uncover the legs until you

have uncovered the rest of the body, in order that the stripped body, as

it moves, does not remove the legs from their place, where it is

vexing to put them back. When you remove the little points which

hold the legs, fix them &amp; press them with something, in order that,

when removing the pin, they are not removed from their place,

or, in the end, you can put them back with some wax.

Various animals entwined

You can entwine a snake entwine with a

lizard, one biting the other, or a snake that eats a

frog or a wall lizard s &amp;

suchlike. But because these entwinings can in no way make a good

release, cut what you can &amp; leave the rest to burn. And to keep a

wall lizard, which is small, in the mouth of the

snake, which is raised &amp; needs to be supported in the air,

po, because the head of the snake is posed

raised, put underneath the wall lizard se

an elevation of earth suited to support it. And if you put your

mold in the oven, the animal, drying promptly, will retract

&amp; will burn better afterward. if you see These entwinings are

also made to cover a wound or fault in the animals, which one usually

wounds when one catches them. Also, do not forget to attach &amp; join

with some wax s, finely applied with hot

iron wire, all the parts of the animal which pass one on top

of the other or those that you notice are not well fixed on the 

wax earthen slab, in order that the tempered sand

does not remove it. And it is to

avoid putting points, which should not be put except at the

raising of the head, at the thickest places of the body &amp; the simple

&amp; delicate parts in the middle of the lizard’s feet, the

nails of which you will enter into the clay slab, in

order that they remain secure. When you have made the first cast &amp;

uncovered the belly of the animal, do not forget to put small thin

s slabs of wax at the end of the

lizard’s legs. But, if it is a small wall lizard,

lightly cover with wax the entire bottom of the foot,

and and this the wax, being removed after

the second cast, leaves a cavity which fills these small fingers with

metal, &amp; then one repairs them. Take heed therefore to attach

well with wax the parts of the animal which pass one over the

other, in order that the wetted sand entering between two does not take it

away. And if For, if this were to happen mold

would corrupt, the shape in the first place would

spoil corrupt &amp; your mold also, because it would

not have the thickness that it you think &amp; would be

pierced &amp; spoiled. And, even though to avoid this you can make the

mold thicker, however, should l this mishap

happen, you will be able to repair it in this way.

For mending a pierced mold

If the molded animal comes away in some place to not have and

deviates from the stance that you gave it, because it was not quite dead

or because it was not well attached with the iron points

or with melted wax, and it does not have the thickness that it

needs on the outside, at the middle of the swelling, or is pierced,

before removing the animal from inside, uncover what seems to you the

weak part, or the place that is pierced, and make small holes

all around all around, then soak the back of the

mold. And cast promptly on top of the same tempered sand,

which will enter in these openings &amp; mold &amp; attach to the other.

But, one will need to lute this place well afterward.

Sand of crocum

One can use the mixture of crocum ferri in

molds for silver as well as for gold, for it

firms them &amp; keeps them from cracking &amp; making flashing. And I

believe that for flat things it would withstand bien

de several casts, which, however, for gold &amp;

silver is hardly practiced.

Try, for lead &amp; tin, crocum.

For making ☀ run

Verdigris &amp; sal ammoniac, as much of one as the

other, borax &amp; saltpeter, as much of one as

the other. But the s borax &amp;

sel armo saltpeter together must only weigh

half of the others, that is to say, as much together as the

verdigris. Grind them finely into powder on

marble, then grind them again with some good strong

vinegar until it is fine, like a couleur and

verdet ground in oil. Next, leave it to dry on its own, if

you have time, or in the fire lent of the

forge, &amp; make sure it is well dry.

Grind

spider

One of the principal things for the cast is to cast very

gec hot, s especially the great

metals.

For casting of gold in large works

One needs not only to clamp the molds well but to

fortify them with good bindings of iron wire or little

bands made for this.

Before casting in gold, clean your forge well of

lead &amp; tin.

Secret for soldering gold and silver in

small works

If some piece of small foot does not come out well in gold or

silver, by fault of not having made a gate of

wax underneath, beat some soldering gold very thinly, then cut it in

as many small spangles as you need. Take some of this phlegm

 or white thick which saliva that is found on

the teeth, &amp; with the point of a burin,

apply it to the place you want to solder, &amp; place there a

little spangle of gold; &amp; next, with a little fat

earth wetted with saliva, make a small layer on the

opposite side to hold the solder better. Next, pulverize on top a

little borax &amp; put in the fire. Boiled water of

quince seed &amp; others also.

Couleur for gold or mixture

Verdigris &amp; sal ammoniac, as much of one as the

other, &amp; as much as a bean of

saltpeter. For if you put a quantity in it, it would make it all boil

so much that it would boil over. Saltpeter is only put in to make

it boil, in order that one recognizes when the substance has boiled

enough. This couleur, put on brittle melted gold,

renders it soft immediately.

Softening gold

Gate

It is necessary that it be longish with regard to the thing that you

molded. And for big molds, at the very least, it is necessary

that it have four or five fingers of length. You can

make it wide up until the middle &amp; then divide it in three points in

this way. And as much as the molded thing will be small, it is also necessary

that your points be small. And in the middle of the gate &amp; of its

points, make there some openings in order to prevent the fury of the

metal &amp; make it run gently. One also needs to

c conjoin the folded parts of the animal with little

notched lines, a especially the end of the tail or

other delicate part, in order that the metal flows everywhere

&amp; carries itself from e l one part to the

other.

Do not forget to make a gate of wax for the feet of 

    

lizards &amp; delicate things like this.

When you have molded an animal in the first part of the

mold, do not let this part dry before you have taken away the

said animal, for the mold, in drying, contracts and would also

make the animal contract. Keep it therefore in some moist &amp;

humid place until you have done it.

Vine leaf and small frog

Take vine leaves to mold as they are in growth, likewise with

all plants &amp; flowers, or a young vine growing again after

having been cut, or when they rebud in autumn, because the

new leaves are more lumpy &amp; have more apparent lineation. On the

contrary, old leaves are smooth on the inside &amp; pierced in several

places. Therefore place your leaf bottom down on the clay

slab, and secure it with small points, nevertheless

leaving it its natural curve. And make a notch in the

clay to hide the stem at the first cast, which, once made

&amp; dry, you will take away the stem from the leaf &amp; clean with it

well with small bristle brushes &amp; fix it with a small mound

of clay. Next, make several gates around the leaf with wax,

as you know, &amp; gec make the gate thin &amp; with

several lines &amp; lumpy.

The vine leaf is painted with green made of stil de grain

yellow &amp; verd de terre.

You can cast on the leaf a spider or frog &amp;

whatever you will like.

Casting in ☼

Take a crucible with a capacity suitable for what you want

to put in it, coarsely pestle a little borax &amp; put it at the

bottom, then the ☼ on top. Arrange the crucible on the charcoals of the forge in such a

way that the wind of the bellows blows on it from underneath

and not at the side, for this would cool it &amp; would not heat it enough.

Make sure also that it is distanced three fingers from

the wall of the forge, in order that it can be surrounded with

charcoal. Let the said crucible reheat until it is quite

red. Then, make your boy blow on it with long and strong

pushes, for in this way it heats well better. And

nevertheless, blow by when the gold is melted, blow on

top with small bellows, for the gold will become

brittle &amp; take on a crust. And as long as it makes

swirling fumes as you blow thus, it means that is not soft

enough for the cast. Uncover therefore the crucible, &amp;

without moving ch it from its place and without

interrupting the blowing, make it lean toward you in order to see well

inside. Throw in it the size of a bean of borax,

&amp; blow inside in jolts with the small bellows. But if

there is charcoal inside, blow a little stronger to make it go

out. And if the gold smokes &amp; swirls, put some more

borax in and note blow on top, making sure that, if it

is still brittle &amp; not softened enough, it does not cover itself

when you blow, as if it had cooled. But if it does not make this sign,

it is soft enough. At that point, blow very strongly in order

to heat it well, and as you think it is hot enough, throw in on top, in

the crucible, the couleur,

composed, as said before, of verdet, saltpeter,

sal ammoniac &amp; borax, a little. And

let rest blow always with the small bellows, and the

gold will become shiny like

If you cast in gold some important piece, lute your

mold with the same sand where there is there is some

crocum.

If you want to cast some large work in gold or which is

important, make at the foot of the forge, or at one end of it, a

four à vent, where you can hold your

mold in the completely n red sand. 

One can cast two or three lb of gold.

a mirror. And when you want to  cast, put again a

little of the couleur &amp; let rest a little, always

blowing with the small &amp; large bellows. Finally, arrange

your very red mold between the moulets or in a

crucible full of very hot sand, &amp; cast. And when it has set,

throw, if you want, in water. For gold does not get

damaged like tin, which jumps.

To melt gold in ingots, it is of no importance to

gec blow on top with the little bellows.

For large works, the crucible of sand needs to be put in a

fourneau à vent, to become entirely red at the end of

the fournaise.

The gold that the wind hits or that one forges becomes

black. But a little aquafortis uncovers it immediately.

If you have some work to forge of latten

sol on latten, as one does small

statues, put between the gold &amp; the latten a plate

of lead. And before reheating the gold &amp; putting it again

in the fire, soak in aquafortis &amp; it will be

soft.

It is enough that the gate be of the thickness  of

the medal, that is to say from the middle of the gate to the medal. But

if the medal is very thick, one ought not, for this reason, to thicken

the gate, for a very thick gate never comes out well.

Mai Also, it could be made wide, as much as can

be done, to embrace the medal.

DEsm Enamelling thin

works

Goldsmiths scrape gold leaf with the brim of a burin,

&amp; then set the enamel down on it.

For casting in latten

The latten from skillets in which one makes the mush for

little children, which is soft, is appropriate for

the cast. Some say that German tokens are

contain a lot of calamine. However, as they are thin, the

calamine exhales out when melting them, as it does in

all meta remelted latten, which, through melting

again, would return to red. However, fresh calamine &amp; on its own, put

again on melted latten, makes it run &amp; cast neatly, because

the one that is in the remelted de latten is

half corrupted from its nature, &amp; makes it become porous &amp;

blusters because it is disposed to exhaling. Therefore, use

calamine alone, on its own, very recent, on the melted

latten. Take heed to cast very hot &amp; that your mold

be red like for gold, silver, copper &amp;

metal. If you cast with recent calamine, keep 

away from the fumes, for they are pernicious. I wanted to use

German tokens to cast medals &amp; took thirty &amp; xii

nails of rosette, like for chairs, which are of

soft latten. This substance, containing a lot of

calamine, like all strong yellow latten, has made great fumes,

which is what prevents latten from running and makes it

porous. Make many vents &amp; cast very hot, that your

latten is white like water or melted silver &amp;

similar to a very polished steel mirror. The second fusion comes

out better, for what calamine there is has been exhaled and does not make

fumes as much. If it is in a frame which does not break

&amp; withstands a, the second cast comes out neat

because it is imbued with calamine fumes, which embrace &amp;

receive the second one. Sal ammoniac alone, put in

latten, renders it neat &amp; shiny. Huile

tingente even more so. It does not need any sand other than the

previous en noyau &amp; that the mold be red like for

gold. Make many vents. And if you cast yellowed latten

with the prepared tutty, you will not have any bad fumes.

This metal is very fanciful to cast because of the calamine

smoke, and one ought not to leave it pass rest even

a little bit outside the fire, like some do with silver, for it

is immediately cold when it feels the air and the

wind. It always leaves some type of tail, like glass, when

you cast it. Casters do not usually take that very yellow

latten, because of the calamine passed through the fire. But

when wanting to cast red copper, they yellow it either with

fresh calamine or with prepared tutty. Wanting to cast,

one purifies it well of charcoal with a stalk of

copper or iron, and one covers it with a

cloth soaked in pig fat mixed with

saltpeter or sal ammoniac, to keep it from

the wind &amp; from cooling.

For casting in red copper

Pure red copper from a cauldron or other thin works

is appropriate for casting. And to make it run, throw in some sal

ammoniac, &amp; when you are ready to cast, put in a little fine

tin &amp; very little. And note that one needs to cast copper

very hot in the mold, which needs to also be inflamed &amp;

entirely red like for gold, silver, latten &amp;

metal. You will recognize that it is hot enough when it is

smooth, thin &amp; shiny like a mirror of cu of

steel, newly polished, or like melted silver. Keep it from

the wind, for it will quickly cool. Stop the cast with

tows or to keep it from cooling. Red copper

comes out more neatly than latten, which has strong smoke

that prevents it from running. I molded it en noyau neatly like

the principal &amp; thin like paper. It is necessary that it

be so hot that it is white &amp; shiny &amp; polished like melted

silver and like a mirror. I cast it in the same sand as

above en noyau.

Copper and latten are the longest to melt, longer than any

other metal, especially red copper. But also it flows

&amp; comes out very neat, provided that it is cast very hot, that it is

like water.

Removing your mold from the fire, plant it in

des a brazier that fills a pot or

a vessel.

Huile tingente to make metals run

Take some ☿ sublimate of Venice,

true &amp; not arsenic sublimate, a pea, aes

ustum, a pea, sal ammoniac, a pea.

Pulverize everything separately, &amp; next mix everything in a

glass bottle &amp; put on hot ash. You will see

that everything dissolves like wax, making many colors. Let it

everything set &amp; put a little of it on each

melted metal, &amp; it will run marvelously.

Founders of large casts for statues throw in much

tartar to clean it of its filth &amp; nastiness,

&amp; much sal ammoniac to render it thin &amp; neat. And when

they want to cast, they put in much tin. The cold &amp;

humidity strongly disagrees with it, which renders dangerous the

work of the founder, for one only needs a spring of

water in the pit to lose everything.

Clamps

They are made with flat pincers of iron wire,

reheated &amp; refolded, then beaten at the ends on the anvil.

When they are thus fine, they are subject to burning, being put often

in the molds for reheating. Therefore, use some new ones.

Tempering sand for molds of flat medals

Flat medals of wax or metal are oiled very

lightly &amp; then are touched with a paintbrush with

eau-de-vie. And in order that the mold, wetted with

water, takes without refusing the oiled thing, one heats

the water well for tempering the sand, for with cold water

it would refuse. Medals are oiled because they are not malleable

&amp; thus could break the mold. And animals, which are

malleable, do not want to be oiled. Hot water should be

of such heat that you cannot hold your finger

there without feeling strong heat. Temper your sand thicker for flat medals &amp; solids than for lizards &amp; fine things.

Your sand having set, clean &amp; scrape your mold on one side

&amp; the other, &amp; make a notch at the foot &amp; the border of the

medal on the side of the gate, in order that you can take it away

better. Lower also the mold, scraping the 

medal all around, in order that, from all sides, you can take it away

without it corrupting the mold. Next, make your scorings around

of the the first mold cast mes,

in order that the second cast joins with it without varying, &amp;

especially make a notch at the bottom of the mold

where the head of the molded thing is. Make some also at the sides of

the gate. This done, dip the reverse of the first mold in

water, oil it, &amp; thus it will not be imbibed. Rub

the reverse of the medal with eau-de-vie &amp; secondly cast,

tempering in hot water. If you have molded a medal en noyau, 

having made the first cast &amp; this one having set,

outline, with the point of a knife, the surround of the medal,

in order that it is raised on the cast &amp; not buried in it. Then

having made the second cast &amp; having opened your mold,

have take away the medal in one go, with one two

knife points q, and that one takes it from

the side of the gate &amp; the other from the side of the head, which is

opposite.

Take care not to oil your medal too much, for if the oil

seeps out, it diverts the sand from becoming smooth &amp; amassing, &amp;

makes it wavy &amp; lumpy. One should only touch the middle of the medal

of the p with the point of an oiled

paintbrush, &amp; then spread the oil everywhere.

Make especially sure that the gate is the widest you can

p toward the medal &amp; embraces it well, that the

entrance of the gate is ample, always narrowing toward the medal. Do

not forget also to notch the entrance of the gate.

If you want to cast gold, silver, copper, or

latten, it is necessary that they be perfectly red &amp;

inflamed on the inside when you cast, &amp; perfectly reheated two

times if there is something inside to be burnt &amp; cleaned.

The molds of animals that one burns must be heated in

such a way that the animal burns. But if it has thick bones, it is

troublesome to pull out &amp; ☿ often breaks

some fine things by its weightiness. One does not put

☿ in molds that can open. This readily

happens with flowers, the mold of these does not open because

they are made all in one go.

When you want to reheat your molds, put the clamps

on the joints, in order that, when reheating, they do not bend,

contract, or break. This is done after the gate is made.

The scrapings of the mold can still be used, using them in

place of brick, after having reheated them, &amp; also the

pieces of the molds that have been used. One lutes with it

also important things, like works of gold or silver. One

also reheats it, &amp; prepares it with se sal 

ammoniac water, as spat from Germany, &amp; it is

excellent sand for frames for all metals.

The molds of things which one needs to burn inside the mold are

souf not opened until the thing that is inside is

burnt, like with molds of crayfish, crabs,

stag beetles, portraits &amp; pieces of sulfured

black wax, which do not release well.

One ought not to mold on brick or wood because they

l’ea drink &amp; attract water too soon, and

do not allow the sand to set. It would never be better than on a

fresh clay slab. Yet, I have experienced that grey

earth dries the mold too soon. The yellow is

better.

For medals and flat things it is necessary that the sand be thick

enough wet, because it sets quickly. And when the sand is thus thick,

one can hit and shake the table where the mold is

placed, to make it run everywhere. But when the sand is thin, like for

flowers and plants, one ought not to hit, nor when there is something

attached with wax or another thing that is subject to coming off,

like crayfish legs or similar things. And if the sand is, by

chance, too thick, you promptly put in it some

pour water. Having put the sand in

water, it examine that it is thick at the bottom &amp;

thin on top. The thinnest is cast at the beginning, and then blow,

&amp; the thickest at the end in order to fortify the

mold.

Talcum mixed in the molds

I took the one from which I had pulled the oil. I crushed it

very finely even more s in a steel

mortar with a pestle, very lumpy like a file. I

rendered it very fine &amp; in a cottony &amp; downy powder. I mixed it

with sand &amp; mixed it together &amp; cast it en noyau. It

molded en no very neatly &amp; one ought not to doubt

that it holds in the fire.

Gold cast very thinly

When goldsmiths have something to solder promptly

and do not have leisure to forge it, they melt some

gold and then throw it on a cloth or other

things that withstand the fire, and they flatten it immediately

with a hammer or similar thing. And it ends up very thin &amp;

even receives the impression of the cloth.

Fine gold, not alloyed, can be cast in medals,

but not in plants &amp; lizards &amp; very fine things if it

is not alloyed.

A pansy anointed with wheat oil can be cast

in alloyed gold.

And other thin leaves, but only if the branch is not too big and

the leaves, separately cast, can be soldered.

Counterfeit diamonds put in a work

Give a light coat on the inside of the setting with black modeling wax, 

then anoint the inside, thus waxed, with

wheat oil, &amp; then powder this with lamp smoke,

for it is necessary that ceste its color not have

luster for false stones. This done, set in your stone

&amp; then with a bit of wax, then, with a

steel point &amp; a small finishing hammer,

join the edge of the setting to the stone in order that

daylight does not enter in. But keep from knocking the

stone, which would break.

Casting of lead and tin

When it is often melted, it becomes brittle &amp;

fl frangible because it is cast very hot &amp;

renders it half calcined. Therefore, use new.

The alloy that I have put in use for lizards &amp;

snakes is two ℥ of fine tin for one lb

of new &amp; unadulterated lead. The mold is made of the

aforesaid sand, common to all metals; when it is reheated let it

cool until you can hold your finger without harm

in the hole of the gate. As for lead, one melts it in a

crucible ju in the fire, with

bellows, until the crucible &amp; the lead are

red. When it is in this state, purge it of charcoal, either

with a scraper made for this purpose or with the wind of the

little bellows. l This done, let it rest

thus red, &amp; reheat a little on its own, then throw in, if you want,

a little rosin to burn the filth. However some find it

better not to put any in, because it leaves filth. But, when they

are ready to cast, they ought not to forget to throw inside, as well,

as much as a bean of looking-glass tin for each

lb of lead, and that it e should be

red like melted metal when it enters in the mold. And if

the mold is big, it is better to put it in a press, in

order that it joins well &amp; that the lead does not spread outside the mold. However, should this happen &amp; that

for the first or second or third time your mold has not filled,

cast boldly, for, provided that your metal is red, it will set

again, &amp; join with the other, and come out very neat, like the

principal. The same can be said for fine tin for thin things.

And the alloy of fine tin is one ℥ of new lead

for one lb of this. Large molds should be placed in

very tight presses, between two sheets of

copper pu, &amp; then bury them in the sand,

which is better than ash, because il is by its weight it seals

better. Otherwise, these large molds are subject to

opening slightly by the weight of the metal. Some make square

pots

When the medal is thick, one is not compelled to cast as hot as when it

is thin.

+

Note that if you want to cast them in cuttlefish

bone, they ought not to be very hot because they will burn the

cuttlefish bone. Test for this effect with

paper. If it turns the paper red, it is

enough, it is good to cast, but if it blackens the

paper, it is too hot.

If you want to cast a written paper, make your alloy with

plom half lead &amp; half

tin, &amp; as soon as it is melted, cast between two

cartons in a very flat &amp;

level place, &amp; with a point of gold or hard

wood, engrave on the left the writing that you want. And having

poured lead on a carton, press on top

with the other adapted carton.

 either of earth or plates of copper, or iron,

or wood covered with fer blanc, to bury more easily these

aforementioned molds between the sheets of

copper &amp; the stirrup or screw of

iron.

Cast of wax to represent an animal that one has not

got

Take some white wax, which is more appropriate for this work

than anything else because it is firmer &amp; does not leave as much

filth, as much as you need to mold the animal that you propose,

&amp; no more, and half as much charcoal, pestled &amp;

finely passed through a linen or a sleeve.

The charcoal gives color and body to the wax,

which would otherwise be transparent &amp; the features would not be

seen as well. Therefore, put your wax to melt in the charcoal fire. And when it will be well melted &amp; liquid, take, for a

bowl with handles full of melted wax, as much

sulfur la as a large

walnut. Pulverize it, melt it over a slow fire, &amp; when

it is melted, do not leave it on the fire, because it will become

too hard, but take it away &amp; agitate it always with a

little stick, &amp; let it finish its bubbling, &amp; when it is as

liquid as water, throw it in the wax that you have removed

from the fire. And mix &amp; always stir the one &amp; the other, in

order that they mix well. Next, mix in, always stirring &amp; in several

goes, the aforesaid pulverized charcoal in several

goes. And as it will be well incorporated, take heed if

your wax has passed its high heat, which you will recognize

when it no longer smokes, when it makes large tracts

se re pulling at the

edges, &amp; motionless &amp; close to one to the other.

For, if you were to cast too hot, you could not separate your wax

from the mold, &amp; it would set in the cast. When it is in

this good state, stir it with a little stick, in order that

the pulverized charcoal is everywhere &amp; not placed

at the bottom. And in this way, cast in your mold, little by

little, &amp; not in one go, because the wax, by its

unctuousness, does not flow

This black sulfured wax is for modeling round figures that are

not for releasing and that one needs to burn in the mold à noyau 

before opening it, po like those

which have arms &amp; legs out front or entwined. And then this

wax, by means of sulfur, melts with very little heat and

exits without leaving any filth. If, by chance, the pestled

charcoal remains there as ash, by opening the mold

&amp; blowing inside, it stays neat.

To make snakes with wax, or another thing to fix on a

candle, one needs to cast with modeling wax of all

colors.

 like other things, &amp; on this occasion, you can cast two or

three times until your mold is full. As for the mold which

is of white plaster, pulverized &amp; reheated as for

previous sands, you should make it well in advance, for

it serves several times. But before you use it, soak it for a good

hour in cold water &amp; for at least

as long in water so hot, that, at

the beginning, you cannot hold your finger in it.

And q take heed that it does not imbibe

b more,thus but rather that it shows

itself to be very wet everywhere, without the water being imbibed in it.

And, removing it from the hot water, closed, cast your wax

in such a state of heat as has been said. And neither the first

nor second cast come out readily until the mold is imbibed. Let it cool

before opening it, in order that the cast thing does not break. You will

recognize that the cast is good when the wax spilled out onto the

outside of the mold is thin and smooth. Remember to make many

gates all along the mold, in order that the wax may thus run

better.

Make the first

 gate twice as large as for other molds. And if, in

the first cast, your work becomes porous and does not come out neat,

 it is all the same, for it is necessary that you

realise that the three or four first ones are not readily good. In the

first one, you recognize if there are some barbs, which keep from

releasing well and you remove them if they do not remove

themselves at the second or third first casts. And the more

you will cast, the neater you will make it, and your mold will serve

you for more than a hundred times if it is well managed. But it is

good to soak it one night or one

day before casting in it, in order that it be well

imbibed. The same must be done for fruits of sugar. This

wax is very soft &amp; amiable &amp; pliant as

copper, and it is so strong because of the sulfur, which

renders it meltable much before the other, thus that you can prove it on a

hot slate. And the sulfur that you will have put

in it will be found, the second time that you melt it, cracked at the

bottom. Having thus passed through the wax, it does not inflame

from a candle. And on this occasion, que I

think it will cast very neatly for medals. One uses the same wax

in place of varnish to etch

When your animal is cast, cut with a hot penknife the flashing

&amp; superfluous things. And if you want to refold it &amp; twist it

around on some stick or taper, put it to soften

on in hot water, and hold it while twisting it

around.

Cut down the protuberance of the gates, in order that they are smooth

&amp; that the wax has more of the silver to run in one

go without turning around in the folds of the snake.

etch on silver &amp; copper with aquafortis. With

this also, one takes the hollow form of the relief &amp; then one casts in

this hollow form some tempered sand, which once more represents the relief very

neatly. And then, you can cast on this one its hollow form in

copper, gold, and silver, and make seals of great

singularity.

Seals

For casting in sulfur

To cast neatly in sulfur, arrange the bread pith under the

brazier, as you know. Mold in it what you want &amp; let dry,

&amp; you will have very neat work.

Try sulfur passed through melted wax, because it no longer

inflames &amp; no longer makes eyelets.

Molding and shrinking a large figure

Mold it with bread pith coming from the oven, or

as the aforesaid, &amp; in drying out, it will shrink &amp; consequently the

medal that you will cast in it. You it can, by this means, by

elongating and widening the imprinted bread pith, vary the figure

&amp; with one image make many various ones. Bread coming from

the oven is better. And the one that is reheated twice retracts

more. You can cast sulfur without leaving the imprint of the

bread to dry, if you want to mold as big as it is. But if you

want to let it shrink, make it dry, either more or less.

Casting of lead and tin in plaster

If you want to cast some flat medal or some animal that is not very

weighty and that does not need to burn in the mold, you can

cast in plaster &amp; brick, mixed like above, and not in

plaster alone, for it contracts too much, feeling a harsh fire if

it is not accompanied. But, with brick, it holds well.

However, take heed to dry out your mold at length &amp; on a

slow fire &amp; with patience, for there is no need to reheat it. But

when your work is of flowers or other things that want to

be their molds reheated &amp; set ablaze, mix in some

feather alum &amp; even some crocum. I have

molded in plaster &amp; brick very neatly, &amp; it

withstood several castings.

I tried plaster &amp;

brick alone and molded en noyau like others. My

mold was very neat, having lightly oiled &amp; rubbed

with eau-de-vie my medal. I made my gate ample at the entrance,

becoming narrower up to the medal, which was very thin. I notched the gate

which embraced well the medal. I dried the mold well on a slow

fire &amp;, at the end, heated it well without reddening it. I let it

cool in such a way that I could hold my finger

to it without burning myself. I made an alloy of 4

℥ of tin &amp; six

deniers of lead. I cast red, and it came out

well. Next, I put in for 4 ℥ of

tin, xii deniers of lead; it came out

very well.

When there is nothing to burn in the mold, it is not necessary to reheat

it for lead &amp; tin. But for flowers &amp; what should

burn, yes.

Molding a crayfish

If some little thing is missing from it, you can

reattach it or else fill it with goldsmith’s

cement, because it can be painted.

The crayfish is one of the most fanciful to mold, but also

provides an example for casting many other very difficult things. Males

are distinguished by the eggs that females carry and by the four

legs little white leglets at the back that males

ap have inside their tail, after the

eight main legs. It is only a good thing to dry them out a little,

because the lumps only come out hard rougher &amp; more

beautiful, for everything that is of shell does not diminish. It is true

that if you let them dry too much, these little inside leglets diminish

&amp; become more slender &amp; do not have as much body. If also they

are too dry, the flesh separates from the scales. Take heed, therefore,

to use moderation. They have some hair between the legs &amp; at the end

of the tail. And because all hair is vexing to mold, because it

gets mixed up with the sand &amp; is not released, you can burn it with

a hot iron on the crayfish, so that no one sees

it. As for animals that have hair or feathers, it is necessary that you

anoint them with olive wheat oil, which

is quickly dry &amp; which will keep the hair flat &amp; spread out.

Thus, you will have the form of your animal and the hair will also show,

but made wavy, and this is something which can be repaired. If your

crayfish has eggs, which are delicate and which

would be awkward to uncover without breaking, you would do better to

make the first cast on the belly &amp; eggs, in order that

you you only need to uncover the back, which is hard &amp;

easy to handle. And the belly &amp; the eggs will remain in the

mold, and one will need to burn them inside before opening your

mold &amp; en for the second time. Thus,

all it will open easily, for what is burned will no longer be

attached. Thus, the second cast, which is made on the first one, which

has set well, separates easily from the first after having been

reheated, which is a singular secret for similar molds.

The gate is made by the tail, very

thin.

Do not forget to rub with

eau-de-vie before molding.

Stag beetles, crayfish

&amp; crabs are molded in the same fashion.

If your crayfish a

d has no eggs, mold the back on top &amp; the belly on the

bottom. You can give it some.

It can be molded hollow as for the body,

but the legs cannot. And to do it well, crayfish are already

fanciful enough to mold without looking for the hollow; this ought to be

reserved for turtles.

When you open your mold, you

will find the crayfish with white bones, but not in

powder. And without opening it, the ☿ will have

done nothing.

Layer these oil colors very

transparently.

To paint it, boil it with wine &amp; a

little salt, in order that they become very red, &amp; take this as

a model. Paint the back with vermilion mixed with lake,

&amp; the sides &amp; underneath the belly &amp; the legs with

vermilion, &amp; yellow ocher, and white.

Having therefore let your crayfish dry a little in the

sun or on its own, if it has eggs, they will shrink while drying

and will only be more beautiful. Therefore, make your slab of

yellow potter’s earth, like for other figures,

lay your crayfish on top, the s back

on top on the bottom, &amp; the legs, belly &amp;

eggs, which are all the most fanciful parts to mold, on the other side

and on the top. Push the back down in the clay slab,

up to near the legs, which is about halfway. And fix the body with an

iron wire point in the middle &amp;, if it seems

necessary, another at the end of the tail. And in order that the

big legs show themselves lower than the head, which is

enf half sunken, extend them &amp;, from

underneath, add to them a little clay to raise them. Hide also the

horns in the clay, under the big legs, to arrange them afterward

as you like. As for the small legs, extend them on the clay

until the joint, and the other half of the legs remain above, curved,

for the first cast. However, in order that they do not move &amp;

detach, secure them well, not only on the clay, but

att fix them with wax &amp; a little hot

iron right in the joints. And if you want to find the

most fanciful cast, you can attach the end of one of the legs with the

same wax on the body, or on one of the big legs, and also make, if

it has eggs, the tail to be half folded on the eggs, &amp; fix it in

this form with an iron wire point. Above all special heed,

since the thing is s thus arranged, that it can be

well cleaned. Lastly, having rubbed the crayfish with

eau-de-vie, cast your sand. Having set, uncover the back of the

crayfish, the head &amp; the eyes &amp; its little pincers, the

big legs, and the small legs all along, for one needs to uncover the most

that one can, both the long horns &amp; the tail, except if you have

folded &amp; curved it to hold the eggs. Other animals

Secure what will  detach itself,

like the hairy brows near the mouth, with some melted

wax underneath.

    

Uncover the most that you can, but take

heed that the notching that you make in the mold will release

well.

Make the mold lean on the side

that will be the thickest of the animal.

To paint it, one does the middle of the

back mixed with vermilion mixed with a little

lake, and the sides &amp; the belly &amp; underneath the legs is

with a flesh color made of vermilion, white of ceruse, a

little yellow ocher. As in this &amp; all other things, have

always the natural one in front of you to imitate it.

Lay the horns on the big legs,

&amp; or make with whitened latten wire &amp;

solder them.

Take heed d, when

modeling, to arrange the legs in such a way that they do not pass the

belly of the crayfish, Aultr and that,

placing them, they sit well on the belly, otherwise the legs would

break from the weight of the body, which is massive.

are not uncovered as much. But because the crayfish is

awkward to burn &amp; clean, one needs to uncover as much as one can,

especially the little legs until the end, for these are awkward &amp; if

they were not to be uncovered and you were to have to pull them, you

could break something in the mold. While uncovering with the

point of a knife, or even a burin or other appropriate

thing, clean very carefully the sand which will be in the joints

&amp; elsewhere with your little brushes. And if something gets

detached, attach it with wax, as said. And attach also the horns

in the same way. And make also the gate, along the end of the little

legs, with some wax. And fill the holes made by the iron

wire point with it. And once everything is quite neat &amp; more

than half is uncovered, oil your ut mold

&amp; n’oubli, after having dipped the reverse in

water, &amp; do not forget to oil all the delicate parts

which are between the legs and the little pincers. Then, rub the

crayfish with eau-de-vie. And make your second cast,

having flattened the first mold, in order that the

clamps join better. Your mold must be wider on the

side that is imprinted than on the back. Do not open your mold

after the second cast unless it has been luted &amp; reheated

&amp; unless what is inside is burned. Do not forget to put

crocum among your sand when you mold crayfish,

for one needs to reheat strongly, &amp; the crocum

withstands marvelously. Molding a crab &amp; a

crayfish, it is all the same. When you have uncovered

your crayfish on one side, only delay making the seond cast as little you can, for el crayfish dry

se out. It is not just about uncovering the

crayfish well, in such a way that you see an entire half, but

take heed that your mold itself, in which you uncover, releases

well, for even if the crayfish were well burned, you

despoui would not be able to open your mold

without breaking.

Repair with

penknives,  files, little

chaples, or burins, &amp;c.

Make all around them, as you see, a gate of wax, &amp; at the end

of the tail, also two or three, from which you make the principal

gate.

Make a gate of wax, elongated in

a line like a thick thread, all along the end of the legs &amp;

at u the extremity of the tail. If there is also

some piece of leg or other part that is further away from the line of

the others, or raised above, or folded on its own, give it a gate of

wax, which from its extremity joins either at the body or at one

of the big legs or at some other place which receives a lot of

metal.

Having uncovered it, attach &amp; secure

with wax the two little hairy horns of the crayfish

&amp; other things which are not en

despoui secured at all.

Molding grasshoppers and things too thin

If you have a written paper to mold that is too thin, after

you have made the first cast &amp; it has set, give a little thickness

to the reverse of your paper with melted butter, which is

the most appropriate means there is, &amp; for fortifying the wings of

either a butterfly or a grasshopper, or some delicate

part of an animal to which you need to give thickness. But take heed to

apply this melted butter underneath the wing or in whichever

place it cannot be seen. For giving thickness to a pansy or

other flowers, butter is not good, but rather wheat

oil, which is soon dry &amp; holds firm. Wax would not be

appropriate here for it is too hot once melted, &amp; it makes the thing

to which it is applied contract. But butter is amiable and

handleable.

If you write on paper or on

common carton &amp; if your

letter is of gum, the humidity of the clay

slab or the wetted sand for noyau will moisten your

letter &amp; undo it. Therefore write with

cinnabar wetted with oil on oiled paper

&amp; press in.

+ Reheat your

molds with charcoals previously lit in the forge,

in order that the fire is not so hot &amp; does not break the

molds. And do not make as much fire where the mold is

thin as in the place where it is thick.

Molds

Make the notches from those that enter more into the inside of the

mold than on the outside, for in this way, they have more

strength. Keep from reheating in one go &amp; in too ardent a fire, for

this makes them melt break.

Do not keep them in a humid or

enclosed place if they are not quite dry, for they go moldy. So do

dried animals.

One ought not to reheat molds

twice when the animal can be removed without burning, like a

toad, which can well be molded hollow like all thick animals.

However, it is always good to redden the mold once.

Lute for luting your molds

I have not found one that is made more quickly than this one, nor

better. Take this lean earth of which the founders of artillery

&amp; bells make their trusseaulx and

molds, which is lean &amp; sandy. Temper it

e moderately like a very thick mortar. Mix in

it about half horse dung, &amp; then have it

beaten well. Next, mix in a third part of discarded cloth

waste or shearings of cloth, and beat it again quite strongly.

You can reheat your mold as soon as the lute is

placed.

Molding turtles

The water turtle is more beautiful to mold

because it has prettier scales &amp; straight legs. And those of the

garrigue have crooked ones. They are of long

life; getting ready to put them to death, open their mouth &amp; pass a long

penknife through all the intestines, &amp; then make it swallow

some vinegar mixed with eau-de-vie or urine, as for

snakes. One needs to mold them in several pieces, &amp; the

back itself, sometimes, because the sides for some are narrower than

elsewhere &amp; are not released on this occasion. To make them die, one

ought not to boil them, for they come apart, &amp; even the shell, from the

hot water. They come out better hollow, because their great

thickness corrupts the mold. Those from

water are more vigorous. Those of the

garrigue are thinner, slower &amp; more

sleepy. If you scratch those of the water on their

shells, however sleepy they are, they move. Those of the 

garrigue do not.

They die rather quickly in

vinegar mixed with a little eau-de-vie or urine, as

with all other animals.

They keep themselves, in the

winter, with their eyes closed &amp; are as dead, being

numbed by the cold. They hide in the earth or

under wheat chaff or warm manure, &amp; live

only on the moisture of the earth.

One ought not to mold them as soon as they are dead because they are still too

stiff. But on the follwing day, you will manipulate them &amp;

fold their legs as you wish.

Molders from Foix

Those who mold crosswise make their sand with

crocum &amp; calcined slate, but slate

always retains its asperity &amp; becomes porous, because it is fatty.

En noyau, it is not good; in sand, it can be accommodated.

They sieve their sand, grind it on porphyry,

and wet it in water, &amp; they take away the finest, which is on

top, then reheat it.

Toad

Once molded, it can be removed without burning it, because it

releases well. Choose the biggest &amp; the lumpiest. Because they

contain a lot of metal, it is best to mold them hollow, for they

come out better. You could make your cast in one piece &amp; large, but

it s would be awkward to cut. It is best to do it in

three or 4 parts, which are a little wide close to the animal, &amp;

include as much of the edge of this, which is close to the gate, as

can be done. Make also some gate conduits from the end of 

Let the mold cool before opening it, especially for thick

things.

one leg up to the other, in order that the spread out extremities

come to join one with the other by means of the said gates,

which you will start in the round parts, empty of wax, that you

have put at the end of the feet to attract the metal. Thus, the

gate being made by wax, you are in no danger of encrusting

something from the molded animal. And it is more expedient to make

thus the gate of wax, to cast the second mold on top, than to

wait to do them after the mold is

reheated q, for at that point, it is necessary, if

possible, that everything be ready. One needs to heat well &amp; evenly

redden the molds where there are gates of wax, in order

that it melts well &amp; leaves nothing inside.

Carcanets made à jour

They are molded like crayfish en noyau, first on

one side, that which is hollow being raised up with clay, &amp; then

one uncovers them from the other side &amp; one makes the second

casting. They can also be cast well in frames, provided

that they are released easily. If they are not, one models them in

wax, or else one fills the cavities that cannot release

with wax or clay.

Iron filings

Because usually filings are mixed with filth, it

is good to redden them in the fire to burn the impurities and then

wash them in clear water. In this way, the dirt will go to the

top of the water, which you throw out, &amp; the good

filings will go to the bottom.

Carnations

Because the ones that are cast are usually massive, or

bi they are weighty, &amp; for this reason, one makes them

with leaves &amp; sheets of silver.

Turtles

Those of water are more beautiful &amp; easier

to mold than those, being flatter &amp; having a longer head

&amp; tail q and legs straighter &amp; better to

release than those of the garrigue, which

are lean, wrinkled &amp; well ensconced in their shell, which also have

a rounder top of the shell &amp; nevertheless narrower v

on the sides than near the middle, which is the reason their

l top shell cannot be molded well in one piece like

those of the water. Therefore Thus, you

will mold their top shell in two pieces, the bottom ones in two or three

or four, according to the need. But, note that if you want to release

your turtle from the mold without burning it, it needs

to be molded thus in several pieces. But, if you want it to be burned

p inside, you can mold the top shell in one piece.

Therefore, to put your hand to the work after you have killed it entirely

in vinegar &amp; urine, as said, let it dry well. And

clean it well with your small bristle brushes. Next, not take your

clay slab and put it on top and smudge it a little, in order

that the bottom shell fastens to it, having, nevertheless, earlier

shaped the head with a strong point, as with other animals,

making it hold high by the means of one a little fresh

clay that you will adapt from underneath. Stretch the said

head &amp; legs with your little pincers. The head arranged,

dexterously place d a grain of yellow

millet in each eye with pincers, because as soon as

they are dead the eyes are burst and putrid. You can do this as well

with all other small animals, with some grain of large

amaranth, some of small, and grain of

rapeseed, &amp; this done, you will arrange the legs,

securing them with iron points and then, with some

clay, fill up all the empty space around the turtle,

that is to say what is between the two shells, in order that the sand

entering there does not prevent it from releasing. And because the legs

should be lower than the shell of the s

e of belly, make a little pit in the

clay slab to adapt them there. Your turtle

When they are better mortified &amp; rested two or three

days, they bend and are handled better.

    

animal eyes of my invention

    

having been thus arranged &amp; well cleaned with

brushes, place the the circle of

clay around the slab. Then, with a band of

clay placed on the middle of e the

the back of the turtle, as you see, &amp; at the

widest place, divide your mold. Subsequently, oil with

your paintbrush dedicated for this the half of the shell

you want to mold. Temper in hot water, so that without burning

yourself, you can hold your finger in it without

burning yourself, your sand, a little p thick.

And f before casting it, rub the shell with

eau-de-vie. And next, cast your sand &amp; let it set, and note

that all things that have shells or that are hard or are not

malleable, like snakes &amp; lizards, want to be

oiled to release. Things that are malleable do not need this.

Hot water makes the tempered sand in water set

better on oil, which otherwise would be refused. Once your half of the

turtle is thus desp molded,

separate it, with its half mold, from the clay

slab that you will set aside to return it to when it is necessary.

Next, clean your half mold &amp; smooth it &amp; flatten, like

the others. But because it happens that because u of

the clay entredeux, the half mold will consist

of more than half of the turtle, cut &amp; pare down smoothly

the excess, &amp; clean everything well with brushes. Then,

make on the top edge of the mold, on the side that is cut &amp;

halfway, two notches, like for other molds, and return your

turtle to its slab as it was, &amp; secure its two

legs, which are not molded, with iron wire points. And

stuff all around what is empty, up until the edge of the top shell, with

clay. Next, place the circle around and put a

clay entredeulx on the first mold, a little

above the notches. And having oiled the d

first half mold, &amp; its notches, and the shell of the

turtle, &amp; having also showered it with eau-de-vie,

heat your water, temper you sand with a little sal

ammoniac water &amp; the said hot water, &amp; cast. Having set,

adapt the sides of these two molds smoothly, &amp; on each side

secure their joint, which can only just be perceived, with two

clamps, in order that when uncovering afterward the underneath

of the turtle, they are not undone. Next, uncover the side of

the belly &amp; of the throat, in the way that you uncover a

crayfish, which is the most difficult to mold of the little

beasts, which are molded in two halves.

    

    

You can mold the turtle with one piece for each side, but one

would need to burn it. And afterward, to make the hollow, the reheated

mold cannot be oiled because it drinks the

oil.

+

If there is some crocum in the sand, the joints of the

molds can hardly be perceived. 

Turn to the second leaf.

Casting in three frames

One casts in three frames bronze mortars

&amp; similar things, which are easily released, namely the body of the

mortar in one, the two frames the

core in the other. And the bottom of the

mortar core in unthe

third one, for small work because otherwise the molding that

is in it would not be released.

Inquire

    

    

A

Cuttlefish bone

One ought not to cast either tin or lead too hot in it, for

it would burn the bone &amp; come out lumpy. And to

know when it is at a good heat, dip a little piece of twisted

paper into it. If it blackens it without lighting, it is at

a good heat. But if it burns it &amp; catches fire there, it is too

hot. Gold &amp; silver are able to be cast well

there, but it never comes out very neat. To mold something delicate

well, it is necessary that the bone be not so dry

If, for it is brittle &amp; does not release as neatly &amp;

crumbles &amp; flakes. However, before casting in them, dry them, &amp;

especially for gold, which does not want humidity. You will

recognize that they are dry enough when, after having brought the inside

&amp; the imprint of these to the fire, they cry &amp; crackle once

brought near the ear. Then, join them &amp;

lute the joints with a little clay, &amp; make it dry

lightly by the fire, &amp; cast, &amp; then shake the mold or

scratch over rough scales, &amp; let it cool before opening. Usually one

cuts the bone in the middle, and the dullest part and

that which does not have any half circles

    

is the most delicate and smoothest for molding, &amp; thus one always

imprints there the principal; the other is scaly on the inside, as it

demonstrates on the outside. Thus, one does not use this for delicate

things that are molded on two sides. One smooths &amp; flattens these

two halves on some smooth wood, then one scrapes

charcoal on top to make it release well. And to make the

charcoal run evenly everywhere, one knocks on the side of the

hand that holds half of the bone. Once both

charcoaled, one takes the main bone that is

prepared &amp; rounded on the sides, and having set the medal on top,

one tightens and presses it quite strongly.

But because the fingers do not press

evenly, for one if you press on the edges, the middle will

remain hollow. Begin, therefore, by the middle, &amp; then follow the

edges. But to make it better, put on the medal something flat &amp;

smooth, or some large square filee, &amp; press with

this, for you will press equally, sometimes after l

with your knee, other times with your

foot with your shoe taken off, &amp; make the

bone be on top; thus you l’emprand

will imprint it without breaking it. If, on the first go, it is not

molded well, return to it several times. Then, repair &amp; smooth on the

sides your d halves of molded bone.

&amp; And to cut it well, always begin coming from the

softest part to the scales. And if your medal does not come out by

itself, scratch the bone from the back, which is rugged,

and it will release. When you want to cast, secure &amp; join your two

bones with some small points of wood,

&amp;c. But to mold very neatly, there is only our sand.

Molding plants and flowers

One does not need clay slabs, because plants or

flowers are not laid on top but as in air, without touching on any side

anything. &amp; Only the es

circle &amp; contour are needed, which should be

higher than for flat molds. And thus, take heed to make it

strong and thick according to the size that you want, otherwise it would

burst, the sand being inside. Secure it &amp; fortify it well by the

foot, &amp; join well all the joints. Then, take your flower, well joined

&amp; securely adapted to the end of

cir of the gate of wax, which should not be rough

but rather smooth, in order that it can release well. Then, wet your

flower or plant in some good eau-de-vie, or else

moin placed in a long glass

in order that it gets wet everywhere; if not, wet it with a

large paintbrush dedicated to this. Then, pass through

the end of the mold which closes the circle your bit

of iron wire, which holds the wax gate, and

cleave with it the clay closure, as you see, &amp;

it place it low, so that the plant or flower touches no

thing &amp; can leave enough thickness for the mold, for the

tempered sand always raises the plant or flower. Thus, if it is not stiff by

itself, pass with a needle some thin thread

po on the flower to keep it from rising. Or, if you

were to forget, lower the flower with some

b small stick until the cast sand begins to

d thicken. Your flower being well arranged,

d choose a bowl big enough to temper in it as

much sand as it takes to fill your mold. Put in a little sal

ammoniac water, then some fountain water. And when

the au en bowl is nearly full, put in, by

sprinkling, your sand, &amp; mix &amp; dilute it well in order that it

all becomes smooth, for if it were to coagulate, it would spoil the

mold. For flowers, it does not want to be so thick, and

especially at the beginning, you will throw, in thrusts, the clearest one

on the flower, &amp; when it will be half covered, blow strongly

everywhere, to make the little bubbles disappear. Next, finish filling

&amp; blow always. Make the mold lean a little toward its

widest part, and if you find the remains of thick sand, which has not

thinned well, cast it rather toward the gate than elsewhere. Finally,

you can even cast some thicker tempered sand in order to make make a quicker set.

I have molded thus a marigold with its leaves. The

crocum ferri is safer for flowers, and when there is

crocum, lute with the same sand that has served, and

is the most excellent of all.

The alloy with which I cast a large branch of marigold, which came out neatly like the natural

with its flower, its buds, and its leaves, was of one lb of fine tin mixed with two

ounces of lead.

If there is some flashing, repair with a penknife.

Uncover the molded flower by gently undoing the mold with the

point of a knife, &amp; better yet, wet it well in

water. Next, use small hog bristle brushes,

a bit of iron wire, &amp;c. When the mold is

reheated the first time, leave it to half cool, then gently pass through

the gate an iron wire to make an opening for the burned

ashes inside. Next, blow inside with bellows, then

turn the mold at the gate to make everything come out, &amp;

sometimes suck and draw out with the mouth.

Take heed not to attach the tail of the flower too much to the gate of

wax, for fear of spoiling something when you pull out the gate of

wax. To pull it out, one needs to dig out all around a little,

&amp; then pull it with your little pincers by the tail of

iron.

+Flowers

        

When you mold them, if they are not strong enough to hold themselves

upright, pass a thread through the mold to keep them

from rising up, &amp; cast the sand little by little, &amp; always blow

strongly in order that it settles everywhere, otherwise it will become

lumpy.

        

Because you did not put in this a clay slab, the

mold sometimes holds to the table where you cast it.

To undo it, hit a great blow of a hammer at the side of the

table.

It is enough to reheat your luted mold once for flowers

&amp; to heat it the second time if you cast with tin &amp;

lead, for with gold &amp; silver, one needs to

reheat it twice.

Cast your tin very red in the mold, of

such heat that you can hold your finger

there without harm in the hole.

Molding turtles

This is the continuation of the second preceding leaf. When you have

well uncovered the part of the belly of the turtle, the

underneath of the throat &amp; of the legs, &amp; having cleaned it all well,

do not forget to neatly uncover this cavity that these animals have in

their shell between the neck &amp; the shoulders. Those of the

water do not have ones as deep as those of the

garrigue, which are leaner. And among

these, there are some that have ones more ensconced than others. Do not

forget, therefore, to uncover all of this well to better represent its

nature. But if there is some cavity which twists too much inside and

can neither be seen nor released, put in some small pieces of wax,

&amp; with points of hot, thick iron wire, stretch &amp;

adapt the said wax. Then, bouch stuff with

soft clay the entrance of all its cavities. Put the

clay circle around your mold, made already of

two pieces, which contains the back of the turtle. And to mold

its belly, one needs to divide in three, as you see. That is to say, you

will put an entre deulx of clay on top of the

throat &amp; another on the edge of the shell of the tail,

#. And having oiled and the shell of

the belly &amp; having rubbed it with eau-de-vie, cast your sand

a little thick, &amp; temper with hot water as before. Having set,

remove these entredeulx of clay, then uncover

well the front &amp; back legs, that is to say the part underneath &amp;

the tail &amp; the throat, &amp; remove the clay from the cavities

qu, all in one piece if you can, for this will show

you if this cavity will release well. And if the pulled-out clay brings with it the wax that you put there, put back it in the places

that cannot release, as is said. And if some part is taken away or let

go, attach &amp; rejoin it to the mold with some wax

&amp; the point of hot iron. Do not forget to put some

po melted wax at the end of the nails of the

turtles to make the vent. Your belly shell molded and uncovered,

your mold can be seen thus.

    

in such a way that only the entire belly shell be uncovered, to mold it

alone.

    

Take heed to make a border of melted wax, with a hot

iron, all around the edge of the top shell which is toward

the tail, in order the make the vent better. And make two little

strings of the same wax, r connecting from

the end the belly shell to the said edge of wax that is around

the shell of the spine, and make sure that turtle of

the tail of the turtle stays between these two strings. This is

to make the vent better. This done,

oil your mold and what appears of the shell. Put the

circle around &amp; cast with hot water, as before,

observing there what you have observed. Do the same to mold the third

part, which is the tail. And having set, you uncover

your mold remove the clay contour, clean your

mold, &amp; smooth it &amp; flatten it on all sides with a

knife, like for other molds. Dip it lightly in

water, then try to release it. Usually one begins

ment with e back the

back shell, it is that is to say, the mold on top,

which is in two halves, and this one is easier to release. The other one

follows after, but because it is neighboring the shoulder of the

turtles, which are deeply ensconced, it is sometimes awkward.

Thus, when moving &amp; pulling the mold gently, take heed to

pull the one which will present itself as the easiest, for one needs to

release one after the other. The most awkward of all is the one which

molds the e of throat, the

underneaths of the legs &amp; the hollow shoulder pieces, which are of

such bad release that if you had not provided for it, by filling with

wax before molding what does not release well, it will be awkward

for you to pull your pieces out without breaking something. But should

this happen to you, there is still a remedy, provided that you keep

pi the broken pieces. For you can reassemble them

with points of rather strong iron &amp; fill the crack

or fault that could be there with melted wax &amp; the hot

iron, as with others, in order that the core for molding

hollow is made better. Next Go to the second leaf

To avoid breaking when releasing, take

heed to uncover well up until what can hold.

+ Casting of copper alloyed with

☾, which is like very base solder

/ ard and old

K and some R out of

xii

I have cast with it the cleanest I have seen, in very small

figures &amp; thin as paper. I have cast very hot in the

very red mold, and have put in the melted substance of

this the two substances compositions,

which make silver run, &amp; have made as if I had wanted to

cast pure silver. This alloy is white in

bullitoire, like any alloys which resemble, however

little, ☾. For casting something delicate, use

this one.

Lute

There is no better than the one that has which you have

molded, namely pieces from your molds. But one needs to choose

those better reheated.

Crucible

Take heed that it is three fingers from

fe the mouth of the bellows, &amp; that the

said bellows beats from us underneath the

bottom of the crucible, otherwise it would cool it.

Casting of latten

I took the one of latten skillets, which are beaten &amp;

forged thinly. I Once well heated, I cast in it

two or three grains, like peas, of sal

ammoniac. This clarified it like a mirror. Once very white from the

force of being hot, I cast in it some pulverized calamine, raw &amp;

pure. I cast it in its very red mold. It came out very neat

&amp; thin like paper, &amp; hollow on the reverse. But because

it had crusted, I reheated it, that is to say

reddened, let it cool, then put it to the whitening, of one part

raw tartar &amp; of one half common salt. Once

well boiled, I rubbed it with a scratch-brush in clear

water. And because the first time it had not

Do not let it cool when melting. It always makes a tail, like melted

glass, because of the calamine.

Usually, the soft latten of skillets becomes red from casting,

especially when it stays a long time in the fire, m

because the calamine exhales itself. But sour latten of

candlesticks becomes yellow &amp; pin filings.

come out as clear as I wanted, I reheated it again, let it cool,

put it again to the whitening &amp; the

scratch-brush. It came out very neatly. You will do thus for

copper and silver. And if you want to

give

Beautiful color for latten

Having cleaned it well, as is said, &amp; scratch-brushed it

well, make it boil in water &amp; turmeric root

or terra merita, and it will become very

beautiful.

Whitening

If it is for silver, do not pestle your tartar with

iron but with the handle of a hammer, for if you touch

&amp; dip iron in your whitening, the silver would

become red like copper &amp; you would need to reheat it &amp;

put it again in whitening. Mix nothing with your tartar

that should not enter the whitening, for this corrupts it. Do not

let it spill out of its first boil, for in this is all its strength. The

whitening is made with one part pulverized tartar

&amp; a half of common salt.

Molding the foot of the bittern, or of the

eagle, or of other birds for the foot of saltcellars or

vases

One usually molds the foot &amp; the leg up to the joint. And for

this effect, one molds it in five pieces: the leg in two pieces, the top

of the foot in two, and the bottom in one piece.

in three pieces

Crocum ferri

To make this quickly, redden the filings in an

iron case, stirring it often. Then sprinkle it with

good vinegar &amp; let it evaporate, &amp; without removing it

from atop the fire, let it redden &amp; inflame. Once cooled, pulverize

it on marble &amp; return it to the fire,

rou sprinkle with vinegar, and then inflame.

Thus it will quickly be colored &amp; made fine.

Molding turtles

Next, reassemble the parts of your mold and clamp

carefully all the joints, as much as above &amp; below as on the sides,

having not forgotten to notch the joints of the molds, as with

others. Having clamped it all, undo the clamps on the

side &amp; not the others. And thus, your mold of several

pieces sem will open as if it were only in two

halves. If you want to mold hollow, make in the middle of the of

the part mold of the belly a hole, from side to side,

which, inside, is of such capacity that the end of a little

finger can almost enter it, widening like a clervoise

the outside of the hole. This is to cast the core. But note

that all these difficulties would be nothing if you wanted

to mold hollow, because you could mold your turtle in two pieces

 and burn it inside, as with other animals, and it

would be done quickly. But since the turtle is massive &amp; 

would be weighty if it is not hollow, one considers it better molded in

this way hollow, and in cha this fashion, to

make a mold well, one really needs three

days. Take heed in hollow &amp; fanciful

molds to have some strong plaster, which endures the

fire without bursting, if it is possible. But if you cannot have any

such, mix a little more feather alum &amp; add to it

also some crocum, which fortifies it &amp; makes it so that the

flashing, if there is any, comes out so finely that it is easily undone.

Also, do not forget to tighten your molds well with a press to avoid flashing which is made either when the

mold is not well joined or when it bursts. To repair, if the

features are not apparent enough, retrace them lightly with a

burin, then soften them with a small chisel. The flashing

is removed with the chaple, a type of

burin. For the lumps &amp; scales, they are made either with a

little gouge or a little round cutting-punch, or with

the point of a small chisel, not tempered, &amp; struck on a

small file. 

Make this hole before molding

joining your molds.

Softening iron and rendering it very soft

Take sublimate, quicklime, soap from

Venice, horse dung, a little less

sublimate than the others. Wet all of this together like paste,

&amp; impaste the iron with it, &amp; envelop it in this

with some bad linen. Then make it reheat until it is

very red. Or leave overnight in a good fire until the

morning. It will be very soft for engraving on it well

whatever you want.

Base gold from Germany,

electrum

One calls it gold from the Rhine, which one finds

in the rivers, and is spangle gold.

Goldsmiths from Germany wanted to refine it,

thinking to separate it from this whiteness, which they deemed to be

silver. But it always remains whiteish, which demonstrates that

this whiteness is fixed, &amp; it does not lack color. This is

electrum, from which one can make cups

which will demonstrate poison.

Various arts from Germany

They are very much helped by water mills, &amp;

most of the artisans of metals, of gold, &amp; of

silver, &amp; others, 

make have their large works beaten with these trip hammers. And to draw iron

wire, they redden large masses of iron, &amp; having made it

into a point, they hook it thus all red &amp; thus promptly

draw the wire.

Repairing a medal

If you want to mold any medal to serve as your pattern, &amp; at the

same time repair it, cast it in a majority of tin &amp; copiously put in looking-glass tin to harden it.

Molding vases in several pieces

Goldsmiths who work in large wares and plate get whatever

wooden forms they please turned on a lathe. And then,

with some wax, they model on top masks, festoons, and whatever

they please. And next they mold in three, in four, or several

pieces.

Gold solder

They take, for one gold denier, one

grain of the fine alloy, like old

douzains are.

Molding a fly

Large flies can be molded &amp; g made

by casting. But one needs par d to anoint underneath

their wings with wheat oil, which dries quickly and

fortifies them &amp; gives them a little thickness. The same is done to

butterflies, cicadas, grasshoppers &amp;

similar things. But to cast them more easily, one applies them on some

leaf or bouquet. The others are made by hand with a very

thin silver sheet. One ought not to keep them once dead,

because they dry out and their legs break.

Wheat oil is put underneath delicate things to render

them more rigid &amp; firm &amp; to make them hold their natural

position. Because being weak &amp; delicate, the tempered sand, weighing down

their tops, would change their form.

Bat

They have very thin wings, &amp; if they are large &amp; dry and

their wings extended, one would need a very large mold &amp; it

would not be certain that the metal would run sufficiently. Thus,

when you want to mold them, choose the medium-sized ones &amp; make the

pose qu so that they have their wings half folded. Because in

this way they will come out better, but support the side of the wings

with wax, as you know, to feed the cast well.

Very strong wax

Mix with this rosin and bole, and do not cast it very

hot.

Various alloys of tin and lead

For hollow things like turtles, half fine

lead and half tin.

For flowers, almost all tin, namely a lb of fine

tin and two ℥ of fine lead.

For lizards that are as thick as one or two

fingers, almost all lead, namely a lb

of fine lead and 4 ℥

es of fine tin.

Molds

They are less subject to cracking while reheating when they are very

thick, rather than when they are of little thickness, provided that

the thickness is sufficient. For being thin, they scarcely need to be

recui on the fire, &amp; a long time on the fire

makes them corrupt, especially when the plaster is not

strong.

It is better to reheat a mold on its own than several

together, because one needs a larger &amp; more violent fire for several

than for one. And, glowing charcoal stopping up the space between

the molds, the heat reverberates from one to the other in such

a way that more often you will find your molds burst &amp;

cracked on one side more than another.

Therefore reheat your molds alone, not making fire there,

except to cover it.

And because your lead and tin become sour when

frequently melted red, to soften, melt it without reddening, and

cast in a rod.

Brick cools the metal, &amp; if this were not for giving

bond, it would not be necessary.

The reheated molds cannot withstand several casts. But those in

which one wants to cast only lead or tin

and or flat medals, having been only

dried, withstand many.

Very finely ground iron scales render them very firm &amp;

strong.

Molding hollow

This iron wire point, which is put thus

bi through the hole, is to better hold the 

core &amp; keep it from shifting. All of this being

d thus arranged, lay your mold on the

table, the hole at the top, as it is marked here on the side,

&amp; then adapt a circle of soft clay

aultr, two fingers high, around

the hole, like for other molds. And then temper your molding sand

moderately thick, &amp; cast it through the hole until it is well well

filled, up to the surface of the clay circle. But take

heed to not cast r in through the middle of the

hole, but rather from the side, for, since the already made

mold drinks and sucks the moisture of the new, the

new one that you cast in which dries quickly on the edge of

the mold, being quickly dry, s would

obstruct the mold, &amp; it would not finish filling. And when

you cast from the side, if you recognize that it is obstructed, you can

clear a path. Having cast in, blow on the f

the wet gate, &amp; put the

end of your finger in the hole a few times, po

or some small point, to unblock it, &amp; make the hollow

wax fill up. Cast in, at the end, the sand, tempered a little

thick to give strength to the mold, for water coming

to the surface s of the mold

always makes it softer. Having set, scrape off the clay

circle &amp; the excess which is on the hole through which you

cast the noyau, &amp; nothing will be discernable. When your

mold is thus prepared, lute it all around with the

same sand which served for the molds. Next, reheat it in a slow

fire at the beginning, &amp; the mouth of the gate at the bottom, in

order that the wax flows out gently. For if you were

to give it great heat until the wax came out, it would boil

inside &amp; leave some pustules &amp; lumpy things, although

This point is placed in the middle &amp; through the hole of

the gate when the mold is in several pieces, like a

turtle, and this is done in order that the core does

not shake. But when the mold is only of two pieces, it is not necessary

to put points in the middle of it.

    

    

Before casting the core, make some notches all around the hole

through which you want to cast, in order to always better secure the

mold.

Mixed tallow is the reason that, when emptying the wax,

the hole does not become obstructed. One needs half

tallow &amp; half black wax.

All very thick pieces come out better in hollow, because a thick mass of

mostly lead remains hot a long time &amp; eats the

mold.

You can, after the cast is done, mold a the part of the shell

of the belly where you have made the hole on the natural

one, and reattach it with

solder.

X Note that, after your core is cast, it is

better to put the mold in hot water to open it, in order

to remove the most wax that you can, always softening

a it in hot water. For the less wax

that remains in it, the better, in order that, when reboiling in large quantity in

the mold when you reheat it, no pustules or lumps are made in

it. And then, if there is hardly any wax, you will not need to

reheat it as much. When opening the mold, the cast will break.

But it can easily be repaired, even though you

cast A

    

the white wax with which you have composed your black

sulfured wax, has such little substance, since being dry and

purified, that it leaves nothing inside, and flows very gently. As for

the charcoal which is mixed in, if some remains, it burns &amp;

reduces to ash &amp; is emptied afterward by blowing through

the gate. You could even open your mold after the wax

has melted, if there is no fanciful thing which could break, like some

reattached thing or similar. After having covered the clamps

with the lute from your sand &amp; having covered all of the

mold, give it on top a layer of common lute, &amp; then

sprinkle this with some pestled brick, in order that you can

handle it better. Let the lute dry slowly before firing it,

which melts the wax. The wax having left through the gate,

that which remains with the charcoal will burn. Being reheated

for the first time, lute it pou once more,

to reheat it the second time because the plaster, not

being good, will have readily made the mold retract, and the

joints will crack open, which might make large flashing. And for the second

time, one ought not to reheat it if you only want to cast in

lead or tin, but rather only make sure that the

lute is quite dry &amp; the mold moderately hot. For

these turtles that have a large size &amp; enough thickness, it

is better to mold ault cast your

lead an alloy half of lead &amp;

half of tin, especially for hollow things. For, if you

only have very thin &amp; very weak things to cast, like flowers, rely

rather on the abundance of lead than of tin, which becomes

porous once cast a little thick, &amp; readily makes some flaw around

the cast. Maistre Alexandre says that he has never gone wrong

with half tin &amp; half lead for things

weighty &amp; with the thickness of the back of a

knife. If there is crocum, the joints hardly

appear, &amp; consequently, the flashing is very small &amp; thin. You can

repair &amp; through the hole of the belly, pull the earth of the

core, leaving it wet a long time;

When you have cast your black wax in the a

mold, &amp; when it is quite cold, you need to the

open your mold halfway, to make the cast. And if the

figure of black wax breaks, there is no danger, for it

can always be reattached with a hot iron touching

point. Or else, if the pieces are not separated from the

mold, qu they meet up &amp; join like

beforehand by joining &amp; binding well the two halves of the

mold. When the figure is large, one needs to cross

inside many iron wires to sustain the core.

    

A only in lead or

tin. However, one needs to redden the mold nearly as

much as if there were inside some animal to burn, in order that the

wax melts well &amp; leaves nothing inside &amp; flows on its

own by keeping the mold leaning toward the gate when

reheating it. And when the mold is reheated, leave it to cool

gently, then blow inside, and draw toward yourself, while sucking, in

order that the ashes of the wax come out. Do this with

bellows.

however, do not remove it until you have completely repaired the

turtle, for you will use this earth as cement if

you need to embed something or repair with the small chisel. If

there is some flashing at the joints of the mold, you will remove

it, either with the burin called a

chaple or a very sharp penknife,

or with a small file, &amp; then with the small

chisel, always having the natural one, to do this better, in

front of you. You can curl on a file the point of a small

chisel which is not quenched to make something lumpy. For these

two turtles &amp; hollow things that

presuppose being large enough, cast your alloy of half

lead &amp; half fine tin. There is more work in

molding a turtle than for twelve molds of flowers. If

there is some crocum in your sand, there will not be

flashing, &amp; if, by some chance, there is some on the sides, it will be

thinner than paper, as long as your mold is tightened

well with a press. And to make the scales of turtles

or other animals, you can make some little small chisels in

the fashion of a round cutting-punch, others in the fashion of a

gouge or the scale of a snake &amp; lizard,

and others on a file to make the curly &amp; lumpy bits. The

turtles which are not molded hollow do not have as much work,

for they are molded in two pieces, to repair them with small

chisels, small cutting-punches, small gouges

&amp; small serrated chisels.

Wheat oil

One needs to make it between two quite sparkling hot iron

plates, especially the lower one, which will be sloping, on

which you will put some wheat, quite even &amp; uniform.

And then you will place the other, all red, on top, &amp; you will press

it until you see the black oil drip well. Reiterate that until

you have enough of it. This oil dries immediately. It gives gold

color to silvered &amp; burnished things, augments the color of

gilded things, serves as a varnish on iron for

etching on it afterward, for varnishing sword guards tawny. And could

also serve makers of gilded leather well.

One needs to use it when it is newly

made. And for things to be molded, it must not be as thick as for

coloring.

It is not for anointing hairy animals,

for it is too strong &amp; stiff, but it is good to give form to the

legs of a small animal, like a fly &amp; suchlike. It is also

excellent for coloring false white stones.

Molding a rat

The hairs of its whiskers would be awkward to come out in the

cast; you can therefore shave them with fire, like d

the tyrant of Syracuse,

&amp; afterward you can replace them with d’arg natural silvered ones. The tail is beautiful molded because it

is made of scaly circles, nearly like the one of a lizard,

&amp; in order that the hair does not hinder good molding, burn it in

the fire of a little candle. The rest of the body should be

anointed with wheat oil, which will keep the hair stiff

&amp; couched, so that the sand will not raise it by getting entangled

in it to prevent coming out neatly. The wheat oil being

dry, which will be quick, you will be able to pass a very thin

comb to divide it, in order that it appears in the cast. On a

small mouse, you can even put some common oil to lower

the hair. And before molding these animals (except snakes &amp;

lizards), let them rest remain dead one or two

days to have them more handleable. For they stay rigid

after their death &amp; cannot be well fitted to their true shape until

they are a little softened. However, if you mold it quickly after it is

dead, or give it its shape before it stiffens, you will do well.

Au And because the eyes die, you there

some if you do not mold it promptly, you will be able to

substitute in the eyes the halves of well-rounded

peas, stripped of their skin &amp; shell. Some make the

rat shed, others anoint it with olive

oil, which is amiable, for wheat oil is thick &amp;

has too much body. This is why one scarcely uses it, only to give some

feature to a fly foot or under a wing to keep them rigid.

Others couch the hair with an egg yolk, which is

quickly dry &amp; amiable. Shape it, before oiling it, on the

clay slab, and raise its head with an iron

point, &amp; secure also the feet with points, &amp; the tail. Rub it

with eau-de-vie, once dry from the oil. Then, cast your

sand; next, uncover it like other animals, &amp; make the second cast.

One ought not to open the mold until it is reheated &amp; the

rat burned.

+

The rat, because it is thick, comes out better being hollow if

it is a big rat. A mouse molds better, because it has

shorter hair. It is not possible to mold well an animal that has

biggish bones, like a bird or rat, without

opening the mold to clean it well, for bones do not

calcine.

All feathers &amp; all hair is awkward

to mold according to its nature.

Butter for anointing hairy animals

is better e than wheat oil, because

it is more amiable.

If the rat is big, it is good

to remove its entrails, or, having molded it, to dry it in the

oven, because the large amount of moisture that it has comes to

boil in the mold, &amp; spoils it &amp; makes it lumpy.

Do not put your mold in

the cold until it has slowly cooled dry. Otherwise it imbibes the

humidity, which makes it break.

Repairing cast things

It happens often that what you have cast makes flashing, either through

fault in the mold, or from the cast, or from the metal.

The fault in the mold comes from plaster, which is not

hard &amp; strong and does not withstand fire (which is corrected by

mixing it with crocum). Usually as well, if there is an

imperfection, it is from the cast. If there is also too much tin

in a moderately thick thing, it does not come out well, because

tin cast thick retracts &amp; becomes porous. Also, things

molded hollow are fanciful to cast. If, therefore, some flaw should

happen, take a leather cushionet full of fine sand,

&amp; having placed it on the bequet of the

goldsmith’s table, where one files, place

your work on it &amp; secure it with a rope which passes

under your foot. The sand in the bag

obeys &amp; arranges itself by and by, thick on one side &amp; thin on

the other. Then, forthwith, with a burin, make &amp; trace

roughly the fine lines which were omitted or which are not apparent

enough, or with a file or a chaple, remove

the flashing. And if there is some fault in the substance, which left some

pit or too-hollow thing, rescrape this with a burin and

notch around the edge, then imprint this with some wax. And place

the imprint on a delicate plate of lead, &amp; mark

thus the appropriate measure of lead or of the alloy similar to

your substance, then place the piece of the notched thing &amp; attach

it well with some latten wire, then rub the edge with

rosin if it is tin or lead &amp; place all around

some small thin pieces of solder or tin or other things,

then with a hot iron or in the fire of the

forge, solder, and next repair this with the aforesaid

tools &amp; with the appropriate small chisels.

For gold &amp; small work, one needs to cement it on a ball of

lead, which will be placed on the cushionet &amp; will

be held thus with the rope.

Molding hollow for seals or other things

First, model your figure in wax on a piece of

glass or smooth slate. Next, mold it with our

aforesaid sand, l’ having first anointed lightly

with oil, as you know, &amp; then rubbed with eau-de-vie,

having and tempering your sand with hot water. Having

the hollow form, cast it in alloyed lead, in the same form as  other figures that you make very neatly. However, if it did not come

out at all neatly, repair it. And then, cast some mold

with some wax on the relief of lead, &amp; you will

have a very neat hollow form in the wax, which comes out very neatly

on the lead. Next, in the hollow form of wax, cast your tempered sand, which will make for you a relief, on which you will cast your

hollow form in silver or another metal for seals. But note

that you should not make your hollow form with melted wax, but rather,

only heated in warm water, or, even better, in warm

urine. Or else, if you have a relief of gold or

silver, or other metal, very faço neat

&amp; repaired, imprint on top your hollow form of wax, &amp; then in

the latter, cast your sand, which will come out in relief, on which you will next cast your hollow form for seals or other works. You could even

cast a hollow form on the principal of metal relief, &amp;

even with lead &amp; tin, which will not melt the

principal if it is lightly anointed with crushed chalk with a paintbrush, or smoked with candle smoke or with

dried glair of egg.

When you have imprinted your seal of

wax, mold en noyau this piece of wax, which is

hollow, like your seal, &amp; your noyau will render it molded,

similar to u the imprint &amp; the seal.

It is necessary that your wax be mixed with some color which

hardly has body in order that you see the imprint better. Lamp

smoke or soot black is good for this. White wax, for

this effect, is exc better.

Giving the thickness that you wish to a medal

Having cast your first mold, mix 

crocum or well-ground iron scales to firm it up.

And having set &amp; rendered your hollow form very neat, take some

paste of fine

flour. And to flatten it, take a small stick of

boxwood, very round &amp; of the same thickness

everywhere, which has, at the two ends, a little circle, more raised

than the rest, to give the necessary thickness to the paste. And

then, with this rolling pin, flatten it in such a way that it

is delicate &amp; thin enough. Then apply it on the hollow

of your mold and press on it with some cotton

&amp; your figure will imprint itself in the paste, in relief on

one side &amp; in a hollow form on the other. This done, anoint with a

paintbrush, wetted in a little melted butter, the

part of the paste which is hollow. Then, cut the

excess paste which surpasses the hollow of the

mold H. Anoint your mold also with

olive oil, as you have done with others, place the

clay contour &amp; cast s your

second mold. And you will have your medal as thin &amp; hollow on one

side as you will want. You can have diverse rolling pins, which will

have ends, some more raised than others, to make various thicknesses, or

use sheets of lead &amp; copper of various thicknesses

or of carton, cut with the rolling

pin.

    

If you were to rub your paste with oil, it would drink the

oil &amp; penetrate up to the mold, which it would

attack. But butter remains on the surface of the paste

&amp; is not imbibed at all. You should not, on these reverse sides,

temper your sand with hot water, for it would melt the

butter.

Testing the goodness and strength of a sand to be reheated

After it has set, it must be found smooth &amp; easy to cut, and not

rough. It tests better in a large &amp; fantastical mold than

in a small one, for the large one remains long in the fire &amp; the

small one is soon reheated.

Softening gold

Sometimes, there is gold so dry it that neither

cement nor antimony can soften it. But only

verdet can render it soft.

Gold not being fixed

Gold as gilding goes away once the piece is reheated &amp;

kept in high heat, especially if there is some lead, for

lead will pierce in the fire a piece with gold, because it

holds closely with ☿.

Cutting lead

Because it is fatty &amp; grips &amp; sticks to the knife or

chisel, wet it &amp; you will cut it like glass.

Sometimes gold &amp; silver take on, through certain fumes,

some color during the casting. But these are not at all scales &amp;

crust, but rather this color goes away with whitening

&amp; bullitoire.

Sweetening silver

When goldsmiths who work large wares have

forged their platters, it very often happens with their sheddings that

it bursts &amp; cracks for being too soured. To avoid this, throw in,

when it is well melted, some dry mortar composed of sand &amp;

good lime which has been worked, &amp; pulverize it &amp; throw

it in.

Goldsmiths do not work at all with

the silver from reals that is not alloyed, because it is

leady &amp; when forging it sours.

Some solder, for small works &amp; things which only go in the fire

once, with some old sou &amp; carolus, reheated &amp; beaten. 

However, if the sou is not very

good, the solder eats away &amp; one needs to solder there twice,

&amp; one finds there too much copper. Others solder with

half silver &amp; half fine copper.

Iron scales

Once well pulverized &amp; ground on marble, &amp;

mixed with the aforesaid sand of noyau, and dried slowly

without reheating, it endures several casts of lead &amp;

tin. Copper &amp; latten come out well. But if it

is not well ground, like crocum, it goes to the bottom,

if the sand is not tempered thickly enough.

Metal filings

They are not made by themselves if they are not aided by some

portion of similar metal, melted to assemble them &amp; put them

in a bath, for they are sooner burned than melted. Tin and lead

filings are made with tallow, the one of gold with

salpeter, the one of silver with sandiver.

Latten

It is very capricious to cast. It must be cast very hot. And to better

achieve your goal, throw on it some sal ammoniac to thin it. Alloy

it as well with a little red copper and, when you want to cast, a

little tin to make it run better. It always leaves a tail like

melted glass. It does not require as long a gate as

others.

Molding

It is only good that it die down a little on the outside &amp;

nevertheless be red on the inside, for when it comes out of the fire,

the air &amp; vehement exhalations of fire do not receive the cast so

well.

Casting of silver

Silver needs a longish gate. For gold it does not

matter. Silver, when soldering, tolerates the water

one throws on it. But gold would spatter, &amp; needs

that for that reason, one casts solder

bran on the solder.

Let the mold cool well after the casting before opening

it.

Reinforcing flowers and delicate things

For flowers &amp; delicate things

&amp; herbage, one does not use wheat oil but melted

butter, of which one gives a light # coat

 on the back of the petals of the

rose flower &amp; the pansy &amp; other flowers that

need it. But one reinforces the little legs of flies &amp;

other small animals with wheat oil to strengthen them

&amp; make them hold up.

with a small paintbrush

Strawberries

The leaves are cast separately &amp; then are joined with

solder. And because the strawberry fruit is cast solid,

&amp; by that means is heavy, and the tin stem which is delicate

will not be able to hold it up without soon breaking, one makes the

stems with latten wire &amp; then one solders &amp; joins

them.

Molding a rose

Because the little branches of the rose bush

which are aupart around the flower are sometimes

very spread out &amp; would make too large a mold, one makes

and molds them separately, and the rose &amp; some

buds separately. And then one joins with solder the little

branches &amp; leaves of the rose bush to the stem of the

rose on which one intentionally leaves the little tips of the

small branches. Put your leaf or rose as low as you can in the

mold because the sand always raises it up. You

en can also mold several petals together, once

arranged one on top of the other, separating them with threads,

as is said. And regarding the rose, you can give a thin layer

of melted butter on the back of the petal, of on

the first petals on the outside, not those on the inside

be, to fortify it &amp; give it the strength to

withstand, in order that the tempered sand does not spread out &amp;

expand more than it should. You them can also mold well

the leaves of rose bushes, strawberry plants, &amp;

similar things that are flat &amp; can be flattened without spoiling

them with two gates, for opening your mold when it is reheated,

&amp; cleaning the ashes from it, All and making vents

&amp; several gates. And this is the easiest way, but the other can also

be done. And with small veins of wax adapted &amp; joined from leaf to

leaf, you can make gates. You can even make a vein of wax from

the back of the first petal until, which will join

to the gate. All of this facilitates the cast. Aulcu

The principal thing is to let your reheated molds cool down

well rather than cleaning them &amp; blowing inside them to make the

wax come out, because when the mold is hot, the ash

holds to it as if attached. But when it is cold, it wanders and leaves

with the air or when one blows one’s breath through the small

opening.

    

You can well give a bit of thickness at the ends of the stalks that

support the leaves, anointing them lightly underneath with melted

butter, because the leaves are large &amp; weighty, and the stalk of

lead &amp; tin would not have enough strength.

I would be of the opinion to mold the rose on its own with a

little of its stem close to its bud, &amp; then to join it to a longer

one of tinned latten, because the rose in full bloom has great

volume &amp; weight.

Wet the rose with eau-de-vie before putting it in the

circle of clay. Do not forget to oil the wax gate. And when you have cast your tempered sand, blow

thoroughly until it begins to set. The rose came out

well. But because the sand finds itself mixed among the petals, make your

work soak in water for a long time in order that, shaking it in

the water, the earth is gone from it.

Rose

Because the flower in full bloom is billowy &amp; has its petals disordered

&amp; turned in various ways, it does not appear beautiful if it is not

painted &amp; also inasmuch as it has weight ou

for that the stem of tin, which is brittle &amp;

delicate, would be unable to support. One molds the flower of the

rose on its own &amp; separately, making its gate largeish in order

that it comes out b better. Then one cuts this gate

down closest to the stem of the bud, on which one grafts next &amp;

solders a stalk of latten wire to which one also

solders the leaves. But because tin, being thus thin, is

troublesome to solder, and any leaf can be melted, and also

because the cast flowers &amp; especially the rose are not

beautiful without being painted, one does not take pains to

solder, but one it grafts the pieces to join them

&amp; one glues them with fish glue that has been

a little tempered &amp; thickly melted. And in order that it imprints

better, one heats the tin work gently &amp; at a distance, for

once cold, the glue would not take. After your flower is thus

repaired, you follow the joints of the added parts with modeling wax esb, which is a white wax mixed with

much well-ground ceruse or, even better, lead

white, melting it &amp; applying it on your work with a small

hot point of iron. In this way you can repair these little

barbs that are in the middle of the rose or the holes

of the that may be in any petal. Next, you will paint your

rose according to nature. If you cast your rose in

gold or silver, you can join &amp; solder well. And

in these same metals, when you have something delicate to join to

the flower, like a fly or something similar, fish

glue is singular for it &amp; holds very well, fixing it with a

few small points which serve as nails. The leaves

&amp; buds can be molded in two molds that can be opened once

reheated, but not before. Next, these said things are joined.

Molding promptly and reducing a hollow form to a relief

You can imprint the relief of a medal in colored wax, &amp;

you will have a hollow form, in which you can cast en noyau a relief

of your sand, on which you will make a hollow form of lead

or tin, in which you will cast a wax relief. And then on

that wax you will make your mold

en noyau hollow, to cast there the relief of gold &amp;

silver or any other metal you like. But to hasten your

work if you are in a hurry, make the first imprint &amp; hollow form in

bread pith, prepared as you know, which will mold very neatly.

And into that, cast in melted wax, which will give you a beautiful

relief on which you will make your noyau.

Very light and hollow work of gold

Cast a lizard or any medal you like in base silver,

like billon. Next, gild it lightly. And once the first

gilding is done &amp; dried by fire, brighten, rub with a

scratch-brush, &amp; make another layer of light gilding

like the first time, &amp; do thus three or four times or more,

according to the thickness you want to give. And then, having made a

small hole in the least visible place, put your work into good

aquafortis, which penetrating to the silver through the hole

will eat it all away without damaging the gold, so that you will

have a lizard hollow to its nails, or any other work, so light

that by blowing you will agitate it. But take heed not to make the layer

of amalgamated gold all at once, or of hardly any thickness each

time, because that would block the small features, but proceeding

therein as said, lightly &amp; several times, and cleaning

well, you will do well.

In order for the aquafortis to eat away better, it is necessary

to cast cast in base silver.

Chasing

Lead is so fatty &amp; soft that one cannot strike it boldly,

&amp; one needs to have a very light hand. The other great

metals are easier. With a burin called the

onglet you make &amp; retrace the more delicate lines,

with the ordinary engraving burin the broader ones, and with

the chaple you remove the big flashing, and with the

small chisels you soften the harshness of the lines, you smooth, you

add relief to a line.

Molding a fly

Take the largest vo flies that go into

pantries, which are not hairy, if it is possible. If they

are, anoint lightly their down &amp; capricious hair with

olive oil to lay it down. Also take them and use them as

soon as you can after they are dead, because if you were to leave them

to dry a lot, their e legs would break when you

want to spread them out. One needs also, to make them come out

better, to place them on something like a leaf, or similar thing, to

help the casting of their little legs, which are so frangible that, by

themselves, they would not come out well in the cast. They can be

planted on a sage leaf or similar. They are cast well in

silver &amp; gold, but one usually makes the legs &amp;

wings separately &amp; one reattaches them. I have molded one on

ea sage leaf bouquet of

sage, which had seven or eight leaves. And to make its stance

att, I fixed its legs au on the

widest leaf with a little wax, melted &amp; reattached with a

hot iron wire point. And in order that the wings come

out better, I anointed the underside of these with melted butter

with a little paintbrush. And with the same hot

iron wire point, I anointed the legs &amp; feet with

wheat oil. And to lay down &amp; couch the

downy hair that it had, I anointed it also

with a little olive oil.

I did not leave the wheat oil to dry a lot, because

it is thick &amp; has body, &amp; the eau-de-vie does not take at

all.

For unction, a tallow is too harsh,

pork fat is too soft, and butter is the most

excellent because it is soon dry &amp; curdled &amp; melted quickly

&amp; firmer. Take heed that the legs &amp; feet are well set on the

leaf &amp; not outside it, for that which exceeds would not come out

well, especially in silver, because this would exceed

the, so fine, would be of no help in the casting. And,

in truth, the feet which had been laid on the leaf came out well, but

those which straddled from leaf to leaf &amp; remained in the void did

not come out in tin. The rest of the fly came out well,

and especially the bouquet of sage, which is very beautiful molded.

One could even cast it in gold &amp; silver, without the

feet &amp; without applying it on a flower, by making the gate under the

belly &amp; reattaching with solder the feet &amp;, if need be,

the wings with the same metal, &amp; it could be enamelled

by fortifying the wings a little, &amp; the feet, as said.

If your sage or branch has something to repair, do as said

below. And then paint according to nature.

    

Once cast in gold, one enamels the wings with window

glass from Lorraine, which is verdesin and

transparent.

One needs to make the gate for the fly from the bottom in

order with melted wax, adapted with the iron

point, as you know, to which the fly attaches itself,

&amp; then the wax, while melting, serves as a gate for the

fly.

+

If some flaw happens to the wings of your fly, beat some

tin very thin, &amp;or some gold or

silver if you have cast it in it, &amp; with trim

with some scissors what one needs to reattach there, &amp;

next, apply it with your small pincers &amp; glue it

with fish glue, prepared as put below. And before, heat

lightly your work, in order that its coldness does not refuse the

glue, which will be soon dry, heating it from afar. Next, cover

lightly the joints of the reattached thing with some modeling

wax, which is white wax mixed with a lot of

ceruse or lead white, melting it well with a hot

iron point. You will also cut some small bits of

spinet strings &amp; glue with the said

glue, &amp; once dry, that is to say the feet, repair with this.

You will thicken them with the same melted wax, to render them

equal.

A means of goldsmiths for molding hollow

They mold in two cuttlefish bones their animal

or other work that they have either already made or modelled in

wax &amp; cast in lead. Once it is well imprinted in the

two cuttlefish bones, they place between these

two bones a paper, &amp; join the

bones &amp; cast. The work comes out split in half. And

then, with ch a chaple, they

hollow out as finely as they please the two halves cast in gold

or silver, and then solder or braze them.

Rouge clair

Some goldsmiths assay it on gold, thinly beaten

esp &amp; well burnished with a

chaple. But it is better to assay it on a gold

ingot. And also assay your substances in large or fantastical work,

since if they appear good &amp; extraordinary in large work, they will

show excellently on a common work.

Cleaning and degreasing your works cast from tin and

others

Make some lye, carefully passed through good ashes, and since it is recent &amp; not fatty, 

boil your molded work in it. And

the tallow and fat leaves it.

Arranging plants or flowers for casting

Always put at the top the principal side of the thing, because it comes

out better and neater than the bottom. Make the gate wide &amp; make it so that

the supraplus (which is the

masselote for founders of large castings),

Et especially for silver, which wants the

mold quite hot &amp; to be cast very hot. Very thin things want

to be cast very hot.

When you know that the stem of a flower, burned in a mold which

does not open, is quite reduced to ashes, it is a sign that the

rest is well burned.

Flies

They mold better on a single leaf than n on a

bouquet or a flower or the branch of a plant, because the single leaf

molds in two halves, which, once reheated, can open and clean well, &amp;

the cast is made better. Take heed when taking the fly to not

break the legs &amp; to not let it dry too much, for then the legs fall

off. And if this happens to you, glue with fish

glue the same legs and with wax, or fashion some out of

swine bristle or spinet string. Fix the leaf

on the clay slab with two points, and the

fly with one point in the middle of the body, &amp;

the legs with some wax.

Ash in the molds

One needs to let the mold cool before blowing to make the

ashes go out. For when the mold is hot, they adhere

against it, &amp; once cold, they separate from it more easily 

&amp; go away in the blowing with the wind as vapor.

Molding a bird

One needs to give it its shape. And to do this, place it on its side

on a clay slab, and hide &amp; sink within it half the

said bird, in order that it only shows one leg

&amp; one foot, then you will anoint it with butter to make it

hold the feathers down, finally ofoil

eau-de-vie. And then cast. And being set, clean &amp;

uncover whatever needs it. Next, mold the other side in the same way. But

because the feet, being of bone that is difficult to burn &amp; which

are not able to be cleaned neither by quicksilver

If nor by any other means, if the mold would not

open, uncover the bottom of the feet &amp; the toe or the little finger

of the claw, &amp; mold as a separate piece. Reheat &amp; open your

mold &amp; clean the bones. The feet usually remain too

weak to support the mass of a solid bird. And for this reason,

one adapts an iron wire in the mold of the

feet which passes into the body before casting; thus, they are

reinforced. Some mold the wings in a frame. Others mold the

head &amp; the said wings separately en noyau, then join &amp;

repair them to first model a form that will be stiff &amp; withstand the tempered sand.

They are skinned &amp; filled with cotton cloth. &amp;

even better, one needs to dress them in the fashion that curriers

do, in order that they do not lose a feather, weight it. The

dressing is alum &amp; paste of flour.

For making h… wine

f…rs

Take a sock from the right d foot 

that has been worn and make

drink at it soak in water, and of the water that comes out, 

make that same person or someone else drink it, and you

will see marvels.

Mercury in the molds for cleaning

Heed well that your mold be quite cold before blowing to make

the ash go out, and next put in the ☿ to

achieve the cleaning. For if the mold is hot, the

☿ penetrates within &amp;, in flight, seeks out

conduits &amp; leaves an odor of itself, which sours the

tin or other metal that you will cast there so much that

it will break if it touches it even slightly. The heat of the

mold also retains small grains of ☿

that make lumps, &amp; contracting to the edge of the molded leaves, are

joined there &amp; make the leaves frangible. The

☿ cleans the ash well, especially flat

things where there are not delicate lineaments which could be broken by its

weight. And thus, if you can cast neatly without putting it in, do not

use it. But if it is necessary to use it, mix your sand with

crocum in order that it withstands the fire well. And

after having put in the ☿, evacuate it, turning

the mouth of the mold downwards. Next, reheat the

mold gently in order that the ☿ be gone

from everywhere. In this way I have cast a branch of

periwinkle, leaves &amp; flowers, very neatly, having given to the

flower a layer of melted butter on the back of the flower with a paintbrush.

Reheat the mold very red before q casting in it, in

order that the ☿ exhales well.

Colors for green leaves

One usually paints them in oil, because distemper

colors have no hold. For marigold flowers, lightly ground

minium for some, &amp; for others which are more yellowish, a bit of

massicot with it. For green, the verdigris has depth &amp;

is too dark. If it is a yellowish green, you can mix with the

verdigris a little yellow ocher &amp; stil de grain

yellow. If the green is dark, put with it charcoal of peach

tree pits, which makes a v greenish black, in the

same way that black of ox foot bone looks bluish. And

thus, by judgment &amp; discretion, put the color on the natural

flower or leaf to see whether it comes close. But layer it

transparently, so as not to cover the lines of the work.

Large molds

Because of the great weight of the metal, they want to be put

in a press in order that they do not open.

Candle smoke

It makes it come out neater, &amp; even if it is a little

thick, it does not hold to any place because it has no body. I have thus

fumigated my noyau molds for tin &amp;

lead, and have cast in the cold mold, well dried

beforehand, and it came out very neat. It is true that lead mixed

with half of tin was very hot, because the medal was thick.

Gate

Even though If the medal is very thick, for

this reason do not give it as thick a gate. It suffices for the gate

to have half of its thickness. But if it is thin,

give it a gate of its thickness. Do not forget to make vents in the gate

where typically the material becomes porous.

Never forget to oil the wax gate when you mold plants

or flowers, otherwise it breaks &amp; cannot be taken out.

Wax portraits

If they are painted with colors on the wax, &amp; if the

wax is not tinted &amp; mixed with color within, the color lifts

off &amp; is undone if you mold them en noyau, but the portrait

is not spoiled. One needs to oil them lightly, bathing in

eau-de-vie &amp; tempering with hot water. If they are

varnished, one needs to mold them two or three times to lift off the

varnish, which sticks to the mold. After it is removed,

you will be able to mold nealy. If they are on wood, one needs to

saturate the wood with very hot melted wax, for otherwise the

mold would be attached to it. Lead white is much better

for mixing with white wax than ceruse, for lead

white is firmer &amp; whiter.

Chiseling

If the small chisel has passed through some part of a portrait,

one needs to repair &amp; retrace it all. Otherwise, it would look like a

joined piece.

Fish glue

Beat it very fine &amp; thin on a well-cleaned anvil, &amp;

next wet it with eau-de-vie over ch hot

ashes &amp; a low fire, &amp; it will be quickly melted; &amp; if it

is not strong &amp; thick enough, add eau-de-vie. And take heed

them not to put it to melt in a fatty vessel, but in

a new one, if you can. It is melted on the fire &amp; is also dried

quickly on the fire, but it may be warmed from a distance once on the

work. It holds strongly. With it one joins flowers &amp; delicate things

of gold, of silver, of tin &amp; other materials,

which are in danger of spoiling if soldered.

Tin and lead

They are beaten very thin without itself. And the tin

does not sour &amp; crack as lead often does,

Ma although it is more fatty, but one reheats it

under hot ash. And it is necessary to beat them with several

leaves together.

Cleaning files

Sometimes they are fattened, &amp; by means of the grease, the

lead, which is fatty in itself, or other filings, attach

to it. And you will be able to clean them either with hot

charcoal or a scratch brush made of wires of

latten.

Carnation

It is molded like the rose, marigold &amp; all

other flowers thus, as is said, namely, whole-mold flowers, &amp; all

the leaves, if you want, in two halves, joining them by solder

for the most secure way, even if you could mold them together in a closed

mold. I cast one that came out very well. But one needs very thin sand &amp; to blow strongly.

Molds

Make the two sides so that they are, es if it is

possible, one as thickness as the other, in order that they

can be quite evenly reheated. When you mold some animal that should be

burned you, like crayfish, you cannot open it to

clean it, &amp; make the cast so that it is not reheated. And when they

are reheated one time, keep them scarcely at all without casting, for

they are rendered musty &amp; moist, &amp; the mold is undone

&amp; loses its strength.

The part where the back of the animal is is usually thicker.

Plaster alone

Reheated stone plaster fears is undone in

water, but that which is reheated &amp; first

pulverized and then reheated does not fear it. But if it is good, it

hardens in it, like the one of Paris &amp;

Spain, which is hard in stone, as is that which

grows in lean &amp; dry earth and which seems like 

white salt. Germans make statues for their fountains

with it, which are not spoiled, especially once varnished, but it hardens in water. When it is alone &amp; not mixed, it sets more quickly than otherwise. One needs to oil very lightly

your molds that are of metal or stone, otherwise it would

not release. And however you oil, you have to temper it with hot

water. And when it has set &amp; well cooled, one

needs to wet it sometimes in cold water, but if it refuses to

open, in hot water &amp; sometimes in boiling water.

Sometimes one even needs to make the mold boil in hot

water, as when you have molded some wax that you fear would

not be easily released from it.

Cold water makes oil withdraw to the surface of the

plaster that has sucked it in, &amp; thus it releases.

Press for the large molds

They are two sheets of iron attached by four

small iron pillars, in such a way, however, that

they the upper are is able to have play

&amp; run freely the length of the pillars, &amp; that the

lower one is fixed. At the end of the pillars is affixed an

iron St. Andrew's cross, in the middle of which is a

screw which tightens the sheets against the

molds which are between the two. Or, for small molds,

one makes a frame, &amp; having put the molds between

two plates of iron, one sets tightens them in

the frame with wedges. The large wooden

presses made with screws, besides being heavy to put near to the

forge for casting, one cannot know when they tighten too much,

&amp; very often, they break the mold.

The screw is riveted to this stirrup, which is

nailed onto the upper plate, &amp; by this means,

raises it &amp; presses it.

Sand for flowers

If it is cast thick, it bears down too much on the flowers &amp;

constricts them &amp; reduces them as if massed together. Take heed

therefore to temper it until thin, &amp; blow strongly before the flower

is covered. Cast at the side of the mold. And tempering the sand,

one ought not only to turn the spatula but to beat the sand in

water as if you were beating glair of egg.

Molding a foot or hand

Mix resin among the wax, &amp; having incorporated it

well, soften them in hot water or urine, &amp;

then make an imprint by pressing, &amp; next cast in plaster,

&amp; it will come out quite neat &amp; will release well.

Delicate work of gold and of silver

One can make flies from it by hand without casting, &amp;

the wings &amp; feet can be joined by solder, which cannot be done with delicate works of lead &amp; tin because

they would melt. And the work of gold can be

enameled.

Catching crayfish

Attach to the tip of a stick some liver or lung of a

cow or sheep, &amp; with a small string

you make a basket hang from the tip of the said

stick. Put in water where crayfish eat,

&amp; they will quickly come to accumulate on the flesh. Extract gently

from the water, &amp; those who want to go back into the

water will fall into the basket.

Catching passerines

If they sleep in straw, like they usually do,

close to the house, leave the closest window open &amp; put

in a lighted candle, but so that the candle is hidden

&amp; that its light only appears throughout the room &amp; through the

window, and all will enclose themselves in the room. But it is necessary

that the night be dark &amp; without

☾.

Catching birds

In winter, when the birds have molted, skin them

&amp; fill them with stuffing cloth &amp;, or

else dry them in an oven #. Then arrange

them on the trees, &amp; have someone who sings, &amp; you will

gather them &amp; catch many.

in an oven that is scarcely hot In

winter. ilAnd in summer

this is done because, before they would be dried, the fly would

get into their eyes and make worms. In

winter they are prepared better &amp; dry by themselves.

Preparation of sand for frames

After your sand de noyau dalu of gip

of lateribus &amp;

alume jameni was used en noyau,

gather the pieces of molds, break them on a long table

with a large billet in order to pulverizes

them well, and, better yet, sieve it finely. Put

them in some pots into the tiler’s oven or

bread oven, several times when it is well lit, in order that

they become very red. Once cooled, repestle them, if need be, and

sieve. Next, put it in a neat, adequate dish

or semal or vessel, and wet it with clear

water, and grind it &amp; stir with a thick stick until it

is well wetted &amp; washed &amp; the filth goes to the

surface of the water, &amp; continue to stir it thus, like the

gip mat that one prepares to gild with burnished

gold, five or six days, until it is not at all

lumpy. # nota And, each time that

you stir it again, leave it to rest &amp; empty the clear water

which will be on top by tilting or with a bowl or

sponge, and put some clear water back in, &amp; thus

wash &amp; stir it until it is well fine &amp; purged of all

filth. Nota #. Next, leave it a little

to drain and dry, and make from it some little balls tempered

in sal ammoniac water, and once thus d dried

l, put them to reheat at great heat in a reverberatory

furnace, where they should be be quite red, a good space of

time. Once they are reheated in this way, pulverize them &amp; try

to mold something in a frame, having moistened your

powder with sal ammoniac water. And reheat &amp; redden the

frame, &amp; if your sand retracts, one needs to pulverize

again &amp; wet it in sal ammoniac water, reduce into little

balls &amp; reheat it &amp; redden &amp; continue so many times that it

does retract from the frame when you redden it. The main thing

is that it is well reheated, for otherwise the sal ammoniac would

not calcine well &amp; render the sand coarse, &amp; for this reason,

one does not need too much sal ammoniac in it.

# 

Nota that one needs, 

before drying it, to wet it all and le empty the

liquid in another common vessel, leaving the litharge,

in order that the stones &amp; earth remain at the bottom

afterward. One needs to let it rest &amp; empty the water by tilting,

&amp; leave it dry.

nota

Crocum ferri

It is promptly made if you put the filings, well cleaned

&amp; washed, in an iron case, two

fingers high &amp; covered, &amp; redden it thus in a

reverberatory furnace, having washed it in good vinegar

for the space of a day. And it will be well burnt

p &amp; clean, mixed and ground finely on

marble. Being well ground &amp; once it is quite fine

the, the vinegar will bite it quite easily &amp; will

soon give it redness &amp; bonding, wetting it with the strongest you

can find &amp; next setting it aflame. And in three or 4

ignitions wettings &amp; ignitions, it will be ready. This one

is columbine color &amp; is found firmer for casting than that which is

redder &amp; the color of minium

bole, made of rusty filings

coe, &amp; has more tincture. Others burn the

filings several times on a reddened iron shovel,

showering it each time with vinegar.

For the workshop

It can be gathered from the words of Herodotus that the

navigation of the Portuguese was not newly invented by them, as

they brag. At the beginning of the first book entitled Clio, he

says that the Phoenicians would come from the Red Sea

by continuous navigation to the coast of Greece, mainly to

Argos, to which they would carry merchandise from

Egypt &amp; from Assyria, which they usually sold out

of within 6 days.

Navigation, trade

Aes ustum

 Once finely pulverized, it molds very neatly &amp; has a certain

fatness that gives it bond, | more than

crocum, &amp; I believe that it would not be

inappropriate for a cast.

Rotten wood

 The one which is white, light like a sponge, once burned in

a closed fire, can be used for a frame for lead and

molds very neatly. But such things do not endure the fire.

Peach tree

Because they sprout &amp; flower among the first, &amp; thus are

caught by the ch frost, one

lays them bare at the roots during winter in order that

the winter the cold slows

them and that, leblossoming later, the flowers come to profit.

Olive trees

In Spain, one lays them bare at the roots during

winter, &amp; in summer one plants them

well with earth.

Bittern foot

To mold it, it is better to spread the toes &amp; nails out well on

something flat &amp; leave it thus to dry a few

days, because, in drying, the scales appear coarser

&amp; the nerves &amp; tendons become more apparent, and thus the

molded foot will be more artistic.

Molds of things that do not release

Animals that do not release can only be molded in two

molds, which should not be opened until after they are well

reheated &amp; the enclosed animal is well burned. Animals that have

bones or scales, which do not reduce into powder but rather remain as

calcined lumps, will never leave through the gate, whatever blowing

one does or whatever quicksilver one puts there, or a

feather quill during molding to use as a gate. This is why one

molds in two halves, in order that, the mold being opened after

having been reheated, the burned thing can be cleaned out well. But take

heed to let it cool well, in order that, when removing the

clamps, being hot, and when it is most frangible, something

does not break. The crust &amp; ashes that it leaves &amp;

which adhere to the mold while it is hot are removed better

once cold. Note also that on the bottom side of the mold, when

you reheat, the animal which boils leaves some filth. And, on

this occasion, one always marks the mold where the back of the

animal is, in order that, when reheating, it is above &amp; on top &amp;

that through this means it is neater.

Perfumer

They readily put half of amber &amp; half

of musk &amp; very little civet, because amber

always overtakes the principal scent of musk.

To spare the amber, they readily put a little musk in

the white layers, &amp; pour l which gives a more

forceful scent. But to remove la or hide the

blackness of the musk, they put in a bit of wheat

starch from England, which is perfectly white.

When the amber To perfume with white

amber in the Portuguese fashion, take a

huchau of amber, well broken up. And having put in a

small silver bowl a silver

spoonful of flower oil, or lacking that,

ben oil, that is to say, a silver

spoon that one uses at the table, put in your

ambergris &amp; place all on a low fire, and it will melt quickly

if your amber is good, &amp; it will remain there without lumps.

Once all melted, put in the size of a pine nut of

civet, &amp; make it melt, &amp; mix it well together. Next, take

your gloves, well-cleaned &amp; well-dried, &amp; dipping the

tip of your finger very lightly on on the

edge of the oil, spread it on the glove, little by little

&amp; with patience, &amp; rub the glove between your

hands, &amp; trace the fingers &amp; the stitches, one after

the other. And leave it to dry. Next, trace again as before until the

amber is all laid down.

Eau-de-vie

It is excellent for molding neatly, such that in the place where you

do not put any, the sand will usually attach to the figure. But it needs to

be in three passes. And because it does not take easily on oiled

things, I believe that it would be good to put some amongst the

water in which you temper your sand.

Crayfish

The hairy cornicles that it has under its beak

coe tend to come out lumpy &amp; not neat because,

being burnt, it is difficult to remove them &amp; clean their

ash, which, staying in the mold, it prevents

the metal from running well therein, &amp; for that reason, one

makes a small gate of wax thread at the tips of them, both to

hold them up and to blow out the ash that hinders.

Spare no pins, placing them not only in the middle of the body

but also on the big legs, and two or three at the tail, according to the

stance that you want to give it.

Crocum

That which is rusty by itself, being showered with salt water

or vinegar or urine and then th

dried out and reddened in fire, is very red ground on

porphyry and is of the color of Levant

bole, &amp; approaching minium. But that which is showered

with urine &amp; dried out acquires a deeper tincture

&amp; approaches crushed aes ustum or vermillion.

But the first one, finely ground, acquires a bright red color, in

the like cinnabar, in eau-de-vie. And the ones and

the others, prepared as said, and finely ground &amp; rendered very hot,

give off red fumes like a volatile spirit if, being thus hot

and fine, one throws on top vinegar, urine, or

eau-de-vie. Urine gives much tincture, and

eau-de-vie also.

Repairing

It is better to repair little with the burin called

onglet, or with that which one calls

chaple, or some small file. But above all,

avoid touching your work, but only the flashing or the lump that will have

occurred during the cast. And while repairing, wet &amp; rub with your

very small hog bristle brushes.

Gate

When you make the gate of some delicate animal, like a snake,

make it come from the side of the belly &amp; under the tail, for from

the side, there are only straight lines, which are a lot easier to

repair than the back, which is more visible &amp; more marked.

Repairing flashing

Having gently removed it with the point of a chaple or

burin, scrape it with the side of the burin, or gently

with a small file, &amp; rub with willow

charcoal &amp; little brushes. Make continuous the lines

disturbed by the flashing.

Leady silver

It degrades a lot, because the lead which is mixed in works it

like in the cupel, and makes it jump in little balls at the

edges of the crucible &amp; on the charcoal which

covers it. It is also fatty, and thus it is good to melt all coined

silver, like reals &amp; others, &amp; to put it in ingots

before melting it for casting lizards &amp; animals, for it

comes out better. I molded some as neat as the principal, such as a

little viper of silver, and I made the alloy out of 4

reals, of 20 sous from

Spain, &amp; a coin of xx

sous from France.

Blowing

When you melt silver &amp; gold, do not blow strongly

&amp; with violence, because with the charcoal

consolidating, the crucible would lower &amp;

the silv could fall over. But when your mold is

ready, at that moment, blow strongly to heat well the silver or

gold. Both, once melted, want to be blown from above with

small bellows, especially gold, for this removes their

fumes &amp; softens them.

Molds

For those which in which one needs to burn something and

which do not open before being reheated, one does not make any casts

before it is reheated. For large molds in which the gate is big

and ample, it is necessary that the gate be well notched &amp;

scratched, in order that the weight of the metal does not go with

much force. They make hardly any flashing if they are pressed. But before

pressing them, put between them and the press some pieces

of plump &amp; thick felt, which is hardly yet crushed, for it fills the concavities &amp; keeps the mold from

cracking. The clamps should be placed before reheating or

drying it.

When the earth from which you make the earthen

slab to arrange your animal is too soft, the points that

you put in it come out easily &amp; come undone when you cast in the

sand, &amp; thus the mold spoils and the shape comes undone.

Therefore, when you recognize that your slab will be too tender &amp; soft, spread on top some hot ashes &amp; blow with

the bellows.

Sand

If there is not enough good feather alum or

crocum, it will easily crack in the fire. But if it is

mixed with it, as it should be, it withstands it. It is recognized to be

good when, being hot after the cast, it quickly imbibes water

when one quenches it &amp; rends breaks

easily because the alum &amp; the crocum render

it spongy. On the contrary, bad sand, which is only of plaster &amp;

brick, &amp; little mixed with alum, breaks easily in the

fire &amp; hardens in water. Cast, if possible, all in one

go.

Molds

Even though you cast in lead, the molds want to be well

dried, especially when they are large, and one needs to redden them on

the outside &amp; keep them in continuous heat until they no longer

smoke from inside. Do not place them to reheat at different

times, but continue once you have started. And do not place them

to cool in the cold, with for they would crack,

but leave them to become lukewarm near the fire, &amp; when they are still of such a heat as you have noticed before by putting

your finger in the hole, cast. And when the

mold is large, it needs more time to reheat &amp; dry, &amp; one

needs to cast hotter.

Repairing

If in your cast there occurs some little hole, mend it with

gummed modeling wax that is black or gray.

Lake

If, once it is ground, you let it dry without keeping it in

water, it will dry out &amp; you will have as much trouble

grinding it as before. La

Stretching a canvas picture

If it is crumpled &amp; creased from being rolled up, moisten it

from behind with a wet sponge, &amp; you will stretch it very

evenly without spoiling it.

Plaster for molding

When it is long to set &amp; dry, it is a sign that it is too fatty

&amp; moist, which is what makes it contract in fire &amp; crack,

causing flashing. That which is drawn from lean soil is the best.

Molds of fatty plaster ought not to be kept for a long

time, for they act like fatty earth, which when drying by itself,

cracks. It is best to reheat them soon after they are made, &amp;

to cast. Good plaster keeps a long time in

molds.

It needs to be well oiled, for it is more difficult to separate

the two halves of the molds than when it is mixed.

Dragon’s blood

It can be imitated with lake, which surpasses the dragon's blood in beauty if, tempered in oil, you glaze on gold or

silver. Tempered in varnish, it dies.

Repairing snakes and lizards

You could well make some puncheons according to the form of

their scales, &amp; making some bigger &amp; some smaller, according to

the shape of the neck, the body, &amp; the tail. If there is something

broken, you can graft it on with small pieces points of

iron or steel wire, &amp; glue with fish

glue, &amp; then cover it all with gray or black wax. But it

is necessary to let the glue dry for one day

without touching it.

Stance of animals

Not only with iron points but with melted

wax, animals are secured on the earthen slab.

Wash them first in clear water, once they have died in the mixture of

vinegar &amp; urine, &amp; with a sponge

purge their mouth, eyes, and head of the slaver which comes out,

for the sand would never set well there and would become

lumpy.

If you want to make them keep their mouths open, put in a little bit of

spinet string, which will not take up space.

Keeping animals

Having molded them once, if you want to keep them for molding again,

put them back into the mixture of urine, vinegar

&amp; eau-de-vie where you killed the others, and they will keep

for a long time without spoiling. If you have a cut on your hand,

take care that this mixture does not touch it.

Molds

Once molded, do not keep them for a long time, but rather use them

u as soon as you can, because when kept a long time,

they are subject to corrupting.

When they are reheated, the thing comes out better.

Lute

When reheating, you can use common lute. But when you want to

cast, strip the mold of it &amp; promptly, with a

brush, layer the lute of plaster that has been used for

molds, for it will be dry when it is placed, &amp; cast.

One needs to mainly put this lute on the joints.

Silver

When it quivers once melted, it is a sign that it is quite

hot, &amp; because usually it is leady, it is good to throw in it

some lime mortar, for this attracts &amp; gathers the

lead.

Fly wings

In order that they come out better, put from the gate to the edges

of these some veins of wax. Make sure also that under the belly

there is enough wax, for this is what makes the gate.

Joining some fly wings, or similar

They are joined with fish glue mixed with

eau-de-vie over slow fire, heating also the work. Then, this is

covered with modeling wax, which is grey.

For the workshop

If something is omitted: the harvester is not reproached for

leaving some ears of wheat. If any artisans complain

that one discovers their craft secrets, and if the

goddesses of Eleusis

complain, as they did to N. the

Pythagorean, that one has divulged their mysteries, excuse

yourself based on the words of the ancient Hebrews quoted by

Josephus.

As the hen carefully searches the garbage thrown out of a

house for a crumb or a grain that she divides among her

chicks, thus one distributes to orphans that which

has been sought among the arts considered vile &amp; abject.

Tablet of Cebes, idle, but the

workshop represents all things

active. 

If the jealous disapprove that these things are picked up &amp; taken

from others, reply that since Nullum est jam dictum quod non dictum

aut factum sit prius, &amp; that one

holds that all arts were invented in the space of a thousand

years, so that you do not think that you are able to invent

anything new but rather rediscover anew the books of Numa,

buried par &amp; long unknown &amp; forgotten, in order to

publish them for those who do not know them; so that as the

preceding day is teacher for the subsequent,

thus you needed to learn from those who preceded you in order to teach

to those who come after. The Latins took from the

Greeks, as Cicero 

from Plato &amp;

Vergil from Homer.

 Aulus Gellius, Valerius Maximus 

only made a collection from various authors who had already

written. Livy made his xxiii book from the 2nd or 3rd of

Polybius. Serapis was deemed the inventor

of agriculture among the Egyptians &amp; nevertheless, so was

Ceres among the Sicilians. Pythagoras &amp;

others from Tyana learned by their travels the disciplines

which they claimed to have invented in their country, &amp;c. Will one

not say the weaver has made a cloth or precious stuff, even

though he did not dye &amp; twist, wind &amp; prepare the bobbins and

balls of thread? Will one say the mason has not made a

house, but only piled up ready-made stones?

Apollo a Chirone medicari didicit

&amp; tamen deus medicinae habitus.

Homerus Orphei poema imitatus est, nam cum

Orpheus sic prius exorsus esset: Iram cane,

deam dea, Cereris frugiferentis, ita reddit

Homerus: Iram cane, dea, Pelidae Achillis.

In Justino martire, circa

principium.

To the Greek examples, there can be added a psalm of

David of which St. Athanasius makes mention

en in Sinopsi. It begins Parvus

eram &amp; in the second versicle the

royal prophet says, Manus meae

Manus meae fecerunt organum et

digiti mei aptarunt psalterium.

Keeping chestnuts

One needs to leave them in their bristled shells until one wants to

eat them. And with this, leave them in a humid place or the

gutter of some roof.

Scented candle from Le Mans

Among the wax &amp; candle they melt rosin

that in France is called of Burgundy, which is white

&amp; not as brittle &amp; dry as the other rosin. They also

perfume the tip and the wick.

Softening gold

Dissolve caput mortuum in distilled vinegar,

filter &amp; congeal in salt, &amp; cement

☉ with this, and it softens it

marvellously.

Augmenting the color of gold

Put aquafortis of vitriol on hot ashes. Cover the

bottle, that is to say, the mouth, with a tile, then unstop

it &amp; thick fumes will come out; put the gold on this

and it will take on a high color.

Petards

Petards are made of the best alloy of metal &amp; fine

rosette that one can, in order that they do not burst,

namely one part of metal &amp; two of fine

rosette or old cauldron, which is even better. Some

are of fifteen or seventeen lb &amp; ch are

loaded with two &amp; a half lb of good grain

powder, &amp; they are for applying on windows &amp; common doors.

Others are of the weight of 25 to 27 lb and are loaded with 4

lb of powder. Others weigh 45 lb &amp; are

loaded with eight lb of powder. And thus they are formed

according to the effort they have to make. On the outside, they are of a

regular shape, but on the inside, they are made like a

    crucible, 

 narrower on the inside of the breech &amp; becoming wider

toward the mouth. And this is to give force to the breech, because of

the quantity of powder they hold, &amp; so that they do not

burst. At the breech one gives them Those of 45 lb

have a thickness of eight lines at the breech &amp; become

thinner on the inside toward the muzzle, which is of 4 lines.

They are xiii thumbs breadth long &amp; seven in diameter at

the muzzle &amp; opening.

Those of 27 lb or thereabouts are ix inches long &amp; six in

diameter at the muzzle. At the breech, they are vi lines thick,

&amp; 3 at the muzzle. The ones weighing 17 lb are 8

inches long &amp; five at the muzzle. One covers them all

together, all the forks &amp; pegs &amp;

tools which one uses, with a thick canvas or thick

cloth in order that they do not make any noise. It

s is good that they should sit loaded for some time.

After one has put the powder in, one tamps it down quite

thoroughly, and then one puts in pressed paper, then a 

cake of wax 

well tamped down, &amp; on the wax another plate of

cork that goes in quite precisely &amp; with force. In this way,

the powder remains well sealed &amp; gives much greater violence,

&amp; if you wish, you can put on the plate of cork one of

wood pierced in the middle, if the petard is pierced at the

breech, which one holds to be the easiest, &amp; which makes for greater

penetration because it cannot recoil. And for those that have a pierced

breech, one must have a good gimlet to first make the hole in

order that the peg, which is made in with a

gimlet-like point, may attach the petard faster &amp; without

noise. And to for these, one must cover the button, which is

quite evenly filed, p with waxed canvas, or

add wax to it in order that it precisely plugs the hole of the

breech. But because the doors are sometimes iron-clad &amp; the

iron pegs cannot pierce it, one uses an iron

fork made like pincers &amp; another iron rod

q made with three claws at the end, as you see

depicted. And in this way, the petard holds itself well &amp; is quickly

placed. The iron pegs must extend from the petard with

the entire point that is made like a gimlet, namely by three or

4 fingers, which goes entirely l

into the door. When the petards are placed, one fills the touch-hole

with good pulverin and

s one puts in it a feather quill filled with

powder tightly pressed &amp; moistened with vinegar, or,

if needed, one presses the powder in the hollow of the hand &amp;

having wetted it with saliva, one makes from it

something like a cocoon or

    

a peg which one puts into the touch-hole, &amp; then, with

a rope wrapped around the end of a stick, one gives fire &amp;

promptly retreats to take cover. The small petards of 16 or 17

lb are attached promptly with a short hooked peg made

like a wimble, &amp; if the petard

is of a good alloy, one can give fire by hand just as one does

with petards of 27 lb, but then one only puts in three

lb of powder. It must certainly be a strong door if the

seventeen lb petard does not blow it up. Some use little

bells worn by oxen or mules on a

peasant door. Others load two pistol barrels &amp;, with a

gimlet &amp; a string, attach them with the muzzle

against the door. If the petards are good &amp; do not explode, they

only recoil and cannot do harm if one is next to them.

A. This is a small peg, hooked like the hinge of a door

&amp; made like a gimlet on one end, for quickly

attaching a small petard with ear of fifteen or xvii lb for a

common door or window.

B. This is a small petard with ears.

C. This is a larg common petard of 27 or 30 lb

pierced at the breech, through which a large iron peg

passes, button-like on one end &amp; made like a

gimlet at the point, for quickly attaching the petard

against a door that does not have is not

covered with iron plates.

D. These are plates of wax, cork &amp; wood

for loading the petard &amp; sealing the powder well.

E. This Iron fork made in the form of pincers

of the height of a man, to quickly place the mortar

without a peg. It must be of soft iron in order

that its branches bend easily, if need be, to fit to the height or width

of the door.

F. This is another iron fork of the same height that

props up the fork made like pincers &amp; also supports the

petard, and with its claw at the bottom prevents the pincers

from recoiling.

G. Petard with ear, placed with its

peg.

H. Knife-like saws to cut a portcullis, if needed.

I. The large iron pegs which traverse &amp; attach

the petard.

K. These are common iron pegs, very round &amp;

covered with canvas, like all the rest, to turn the large

iron pegs pierced close to the head.

L. Axes that one must always carry to finish breaking down,

if by chance the petard has left anything whole.

M. A large mallet of wood for knocking down what was

begun &amp; weakened by the saws or

gimlets.

N. Are large augers &amp; gimlets of

wheelwrights for smoothly cutting a door or window by

making large holes close to one another.

O. Crutches of the height of a man, which it is

necessary to carry to quickly put under a portcullis after the petard

has gone off &amp; to prevent the portcullis from falling.

P. Are small iron pincers for putting some petard

low on the straight part of the bolt or strap hinge of

the door.

List of processes

Molding turtles

Furry animals

Birds

Leaf of a vine - put

Of strawberries

Molding diverse pieces

Molding a vessel in a frame

Molding capilli veneris

&amp; plants that need

threads for their support

Molding a bouquet

Rose carnations

Molding hollow

Hollow gilded silver

Molding crab - put

+ Crayfish put and

seen

Grasshoppers

Barbels

Butterflies

Flies

Bats

Enameling very thin gold

Molding in sugar

Molding fish

Casting in sulfur - put

Carton

+ P Wax

put

Modeling

Stamped medals full of lead

Molding large pieces carved in wood

Molding and making hollow forms of animals from metal

+ Wheat oil put and

seen

Stag beetle

Foot of a bittern molded

Thickness of a medal

Very hard wax

Molding a pring and that which is engraved

Molding pieces of carcanets

Things that are not released

Fountains

Grottos

Diverse mosses applied

Molding in three frames

Softening iron to engrave it

Etching with aquafortis on silver

and copper

Stamping

White enamel, making it tender

with calcined black river

pebbles

Molding very thin like bimbalotiers do

They mold in paper &amp;

carton, for neither earth, sand, nor

metal would mold as neatly &amp; would not receive. Or else they

engrave in stone from Istre the

principal side, &amp; the reverse is of paper or

carton.

Reducing a round figure to a hollow form

You need to first mold it with some plaster, as said

before, &amp; in the plaster cast in wax, from which will

come out a relief that you will repair very neatly, and

bmodel it as you fancy. And then you will model

this relief of wax again in plaster, or better yet, with

your wetted sand # like for noyau, &amp; in the

latter, cast in some lead, &amp; from this you will have a very

neat relief, &amp; if it is not, repair on the cement or

otherwise, &amp; take heed that it is always of good release. And

this one will always serve you well for making as many hollow forms as you

please, in this way. Place half of your figure of

lead, oiled &amp; wetted with eau-de-vie according

to the above, in the clay slab, then mold this half with

some white plaster. Having set next and having

well smoothed &amp; flattened the plaster, take your

black wax mixed with sulfur, as is said, because it leaves

nothing in the mold &amp; melts quicker. Wet it in warm

urine, &amp; once softened enough, make an imprint with it

on the half of the lead figure, and it you will have a

very neat hollow form. Shape next the hollow wax form in a square shape, as

you please, with sufficient thickness &amp; smooth it well on all sides,

&amp; thus next, mold this hollowed wax,

imprinted on one part &amp; flat &amp; smooth on the other, in the same

fashion that you mold flat medals of wax or other

metal en noyau. And the mold en noyau

will render in silver or such metal as pleases you

the m a similar figure to the wax, that is to

say flat &amp; smooth on one side &amp; hollow on the other. And having

cleaned &amp; put this hollow form to be whitened, if it is silver,

you will be able to mix there some works of sugar,

#

having made a hole in your clay slab &amp; having

en packed in it half of the figure of wax, 

a little oiled, to pull it out better.

Transparent wax is not good, but rather the one which has body,

to make an imprint well.

    

As you have molded with plaster &amp; wax one half, you

can mold the other the same.

perfume &amp; suchlike. But take heed that it is

necessary that the black wax with which you mold be

hard, in order that, quickly &amp; du more drily,

it retracts, in order to see if it is well imprinted. It is rendered

harder by adding into the already melted one more melted sulfur

&amp; a little rosin.

Currency medals

One makes the relief puncheons of untempered steel,

then one tempers them, &amp; with these one

strikes on matrices, not reddened in fire, as some think, but

on steeled iron, reheated &amp; softened, which one quenches afterward.

Casting

Do not cast in one go, for in doing so, the metal is

regurgitated &amp; in, &amp; the

metal gets cold before it goes down. But cast bit by bit &amp;

taking your time.

Clamps

When you put them back the second time, make sure that the

mold does not shift.

Molds

Those of noyau, in being reheated, want to be set on

charcoals a little spent, without the air touching

them, like the frame molds want to be recu

dried in the open &amp; uncovered.

Thick works of tin

They do not want to be cast in lead or red tin like

thin &amp; delicate things. It is enough if it is f

well melted &amp; hot. Thin things want to be quite hot &amp; of red

tin.

Cleaning closed molds

One needs to let them cool rather than blow inside to clean them,

for when hot, they retain the ash. When cold, they are cleaned better. Take a thin wire of latten or a delicate straw to clean the tail completely, for this is what makes the gate. Blow into it &amp; suck, drawing it to you. Before molding,

thicken the tail with wax, then cut it,

    

    

 &amp; join &amp; solder a tail of latten wire with

solder. The lumps on a flower are a small matter, for this can

be removed with the chaple, but let the leaves come

out well, then the paint covers everything.

Original first page (1578–1579)

In the year fifteen hundred

seventy-eight, the second of July, the heirs of 

thee late Sieur

Ouvryer received two hundred and five

écus the rent of Saint-Frajou, amounting

to twelve hundred and thirty livres.

They have also received, as part of the revenue of the year fifteen

hundred seventy nine, two three hundred forty three and one third écus sur qu.

And for the first year, eighty livres and fifteen

     remain to them

, and for the second settlement, they have not yet received anything.

Against plague

Take, against pestilential fever or poison or plague, an

écu’s weight of your opiate soaked in

scabious or bugloss water

or thoroughly tempered wine, if one is afflicted. After taking

it, one needs to make oneself sweat.

    

 Othonis episcopi Frisigensis Ab

orbe condito

For preserving

Acetum paratum ex ruta baccis juniperi 

simul tusis. Eo aceto extinguantur lateres igniti et vapor excipiatur 

ore &amp; naribus.

This is to preserve oneself when one goes into infected air: a

garment can be thus perfumed &amp; removing its infection, 

the room, house, &amp;c. If you find yourself in a place where

you do not have this preparation, carry rue &amp;

seeds pestled together, then, according to

your need, boil them in vinegar and use as above.

Abbatis Urspergensis

Chronicon

 

Hyeronimus Mercurialis,

Variarum

List of books

Rerum Scoticarum Historia, Georgio

Bucanano authore

Rembertus Dodonaeus, Mechliniensis medicus, De stirpium

historia

Des Ormes, De l’invention de bien bastir, and other

works

Tilesius, De coloribus,

Vascosan

Marmodaeus, go De lapillis

praetiosis

Albertus Magnus de mineralibus