Casting

I have tried four kinds of sand for lead &amp; tin:
chalk, pestled glass, tripoli &amp; burnt
linen, all 4 excellent. But as for the chalk, it needs to
be of the softest kind you can find, like the Champagne one
that painters use. It releases very neatly, does not want
to be moistened with magistra or anything else, but needs to be
completely dry, in its natural state, finely
pulverized. The first cast is always the
neatest; however, it will well withstand two or three. But there is only
the first one that you need to take heed of, when you want to remake
your frame mold to take new powdered chalk that has not
yet been put to use, for the one previously used in the frame has
dried out &amp; does not have as much hold &amp; bond like the fresh one.
Pestled glass can be made from common glass sand, however,
cristallin is more excellent, for common glass contains
glass salt of saltwort only, but
cristallin contains both salt of tartar &amp;
saltwort all together, which both help fusion, the glass
once calcined &amp; reduced as if to its prime substance. In order to
calcine it perfectly, throw your pieces of glass, whichever it be,
among the largest possible lit charcoals that you can, if you are
    lacking another amenity tfor violent firet.
And when it is well red, throw it into
water



Putty is considered excellent for these two metals.








and immediately you will be able to crumble it between your
fingers and easily pestle in a mortar of metal, 
or better yet, of iron. Next, it
will be easy to grind it, not only on common
marble that would corrode, but on
porphyry, and it is necessary that it be finely ground
with water so that when putting it on your
fingernail, you find it soft without any asperity, like
the p colors that the painters grind for oil. This one, once dry, you can
use au lie instead of sand, in a frame 
without moistening it with anything nor reheating it, if you do
not want to; fumigate the hollow form with sulfur smoke or de
p with the tip of the flame of a wax candle
that barely makes smoke, and it will make a very neat &amp; shiny &amp;
polished work, in pure lead &amp; tin. I would
say the same for finely pulverized tripoli that does not want to
be not reheated or moistened. Burnt linen gives less
trouble than any other, because it needs neither to be reheated nor to be
moistened, &amp; molds and releases very neatly &amp;
very, subtly &amp; releases well neatly, like the
previous ones do as well, &amp; withstands several fusions. First one ought to burn
it with a flame, then leave it to rest &amp; to be consumed with its
fire until it wears it out, then finely grind it on
marble or on a paper. But because a

lot And if you reheat it in a crucible, red hot due to
the fire, to render all of it fine &amp; impalpable, I believe it will
be even better. But because a lot of linen is reduced to very
little when burned, if you want to save some, you can sprinkle only the
medal that you want to mold &amp; cover it, and fill the frame with pestled slate, which molds also very neatly. But
note that the first cast is always the most beautiful &amp; the neatest.
If you cast opportunely, soft tin that seems to be
burnished in little wheels that pewterers sell, comes out
very neatly &amp; approaching the color of silver, without mixing
in anything. It is true that one ought to cast it rather hot, &amp;
so that the molded object should be 4 fingers away
from the cast. In order to know its heat, first melt it well, so
hot with such a degree of heat that it
promptly burns in a shiver a paper or straw placed
inside. Then remove it from the fire &amp; leave it to
rest a little &amp; cast. Tin mixed










with half lead comes out almost better than pure tin
pure or or lead, even
though in any case they come out well. Nevertheless take care not to
cast lead at all as hot as tin. In big works it is necessary
    to moisten the sands with magistra or glair of egg.