Sand of the mine of Thoulouse

 Casting sand coming from the mine, once passed through a
double sieve, next put in with melted resin, burns &amp;
inflames &amp; becomes all red &amp; inflamed like iron. Once
cold, it is completely black and can be ground very finely on
porphyry. Having prepared it thus &amp; rendered it
without asperity on the fingernail, I moistened it
with beaten glair of egg &amp; beat it well, until it was not pasty
but rather powdery. I found it of very good release, &amp; molded with
it in lead &amp; tin very neatly, but it wants to be well
reheated &amp; at ease.

Others beat it well in a mortar, in small amounts at a
time, &amp; thus it is pressed together and rendered very fine. Then
they reheat it moderately, only to dry it. Next, they grind it dry on
porphyry. And thus it becomes as if impalpable and not
too dried out, it and it retains the body &amp; the bond of the
earth to which it is kin and is better than when it is so
burnt. Once moistened with glair of egg passed through a
sponge, it releases very neatly M very
neatly in low relief, but not for figures in high relief. Therefore,
since then, I have experimented lexper with
moistening it only with very strong vinegar. It released a
figure which I could not release previously. And I believe that,
moistening the finest in a fashion as with glair, &amp; the
coarsest, for filling, with gushes of salt water or
wine, that they do not join so well. But as they are of one
nature &amp; are moistened the same, they embrace each other &amp; hold
together one with the other.


To mold well, after having prepared your sands, mold in
a day. Slowly reheat them the next day, then cast them
on another.





One ought to choose the one which is as in clods
&amp; lumps, well deep in the earth, for usually the one that
is found higher up is too much a kin of the earth, and the lower is a kin of the rock.



I have molded it from pure lead cast very neatlyhot, &amp; I had as an example the very neat principal, but the
vinegar hardly gives it any bond, &amp; thus it sustained only
one cast.