For whitening enilanroc

Some think that the ceruse-colored crust which is on top
is natural, others say that it is a secret of ancient lapidaries
that is lost, others say that it is refired enamel. And by means
of the said crust, several ciphers, letters, circles
st &amp; other bizarre things can be formed. As for
the method, I have practiced it thus. Once I wished to give it a layer of
arsenic ground on marble. However, I experimented
without this, and I put the aforesaid thing, enilanroc, in a
small iron casket on the fire of my
goldsmith’s forge with three or four small
half-burnt charcoals, and blew only with my mouth. And
nonetheless the thing came to redden &amp; ignition &amp; turned
completely white, not only on its surface but also inside, &amp; then I
let it cool on its own near the fire, for otherwise, exposing
it suddenly to cold air, it would have burst. Once all white, I passed
it through my lead tinwheel, 
where I found it as hard as before, &amp; uncovering the white
a little, I found it a fair flesh color. Finally, I polished it &amp;
saw that it took a very beautiful polish &amp; could paragon a
very beautiful agate for cutting some beautiful face on it &amp;
bringing it on the a table of












agate of various color. But because this total whiteness did not
respond to make this white crust on the surface that I was seeking,
leaving the rest of the thing of its natural color, I made a opening in
a brick of the exact size of the thing &amp; put it inside. Then
I reddened two glassworkers’
solders, &amp; as they were red, I
presented them one after the other onto the surface of the thing until I
had the white crust that I required, on which I made such drawing as I
wanted, uncovering up to the red base with a diamond
point, and I polished it with small hog bristle brushes
and tripoli. I do not know if it would be better to
reheat it under hot ashes, &amp; if it would be good to encase it
in alabaster, which is very cold, as I encased it in the
brick.