Molding plants and flowers

One does not need clay slabs, because plants or
flowers are not laid on top but as in air, without touching on any side
anything. &amp; Only the es
circle &amp; contour are needed, which should be
higher than for flat molds. And thus, take heed to make it
strong and thick according to the size that you want, otherwise it would
burst, the sand being inside. Secure it &amp; fortify it well by the
foot, &amp; join well all the joints. Then, take your flower, well joined
&amp; securely adapted to the end of
cir of the gate of wax, which should not be rough
but rather smooth, in order that it can release well. Then, wet your
flower or plant in some good eau-de-vie, or else
moin placed in a long glass










in order that it gets wet everywhere; if not, wet it with a
large paintbrush dedicated to this. Then, pass through
the end of the mold which closes the circle your bit
of iron wire, which holds the wax gate, and
cleave with it the clay closure, as you see, &amp;
it place it low, so that the plant or flower touches no
thing &amp; can leave enough thickness for the mold, for the
tempered sand always raises the plant or flower. Thus, if it is not stiff by
itself, pass with a needle some thin thread
po on the flower to keep it from rising. Or, if you
were to forget, lower the flower with some
b small stick until the cast sand begins to
d thicken. Your flower being well arranged,
d choose a bowl big enough to temper in it as
much sand as it takes to fill your mold. Put in a little sal
ammoniac water, then some fountain water. And when
the au en bowl is nearly full, put in, by
sprinkling, your sand, &amp; mix &amp; dilute it well in order that it
all becomes smooth, for if it were to coagulate, it would spoil the
mold. For flowers, it does not want to be so thick, and
especially at the beginning, you will throw, in thrusts, the clearest one
on the flower, &amp; when it will be half covered, blow strongly
everywhere, to make the little bubbles disappear. Next, finish filling
&amp; blow always. Make the mold lean a little toward its
widest part, and if you find the remains of thick sand, which has not
thinned well, cast it rather toward the gate than elsewhere. Finally,
you can even cast some thicker tempered sand in order to make make a quicker set.
I have molded thus a marigold with its leaves. The
crocum ferri is safer for flowers, and when there is
crocum, lute with the same sand that has served, and
is the most excellent of all.




The alloy with which I cast a large branch of marigold, which came out neatly like the natural
with its flower, its buds, and its leaves, was of one lb of fine tin mixed with two
ounces of lead.



If there is some flashing, repair with a penknife.



Uncover the molded flower by gently undoing the mold with the
point of a knife, &amp; better yet, wet it well in
water. Next, use small hog bristle brushes,
a bit of iron wire, &amp;c. When the mold is
reheated the first time, leave it to half cool, then gently pass through
the gate an iron wire to make an opening for the burned
ashes inside. Next, blow inside with bellows, then
turn the mold at the gate to make everything come out, &amp;
sometimes suck and draw out with the mouth.



Take heed not to attach the tail of the flower too much to the gate of
wax, for fear of spoiling something when you pull out the gate of
wax. To pull it out, one needs to dig out all around a little,
&amp; then pull it with your little pincers by the tail of
iron.