Keeping dry flowers in the same

 state all year

This is a rare secret, &amp; which gives pleasure for adorning
tables, rooms &amp; cabinets out of season,
when winter denies flowers. Take heed, therefore, to
ce pick them when they are in full vigor &amp;
growing. For if you were to take them when their season
is past or when they are starting to wilt, they would not keep.
Having thus chosen them, therefore, take sand, the leanest &amp;
driest you can find, which should be very fine, like that which
goldsmiths use use to work
enamel or like that for stampings. But above all, it must not
make dust, nor remain on the hand, or leave a mark on it
when you have pulverized it &amp; then poured it from your
hand. For it is


        
River sand washed by the current of the
waters is good, being passed through a linen cloth
to shake the powder.
    
    

+
Flowers are also kept in their same beauty in distilled vinegar
vin a well sealed vessel which does not
allow any wind, which should be well sealed with wax &amp;
mastic. Carnations &amp; roses, the residue
of common vinegar makes them rot. If the sand makes
dust, &amp; clings to the flowers, &amp; is not easily removed
with a paintbrush, it is no good. The leanest is the
best.
    
    


+

Make sure your box is well joined, in order that the sand
does not trickle out. Keep it uncovered in sunlight and
remove it from the serain &amp; the humidity of the
night, &amp; cover it &amp; keep it in a dry
place.



QueTake heed not to put the said flowers in big
vessels, for when one pulls out one, one needs to pull out all. 



Take good heed not to pick your flowers w in rainy and
humid weather, but when the sun has been shining on
them.






a sign that it has some humidity, &amp; if the flower also had some
aquosity, it would rot. It also ought not to be too coarse,
for with its heaviness it would weigh down the flower &amp; make it lose
its form. Having thus chosen it as is needed, take a box, in
which you first make a mound of the said sand, on which you will set the
stalk of your flower, so that laid down so that the flower
touches neither the bottom nor the sides of the box, but
remains in the air. Then, weigh down the stalk with more on
sand in order that it remains firm &amp; fixed. Finally, take some of the
same sand &amp; with two fingers pulverize &amp; cast
it delicately on the flower, e imitating in that the flow of
an hourglass. And when the flower is as if
half covered, strike your fist on the table
where the box is set in order that the sand drops &amp; enters
everywhere. Finally, cover it all over and thus lay in other flowers,
in order, one over the other, as many as your box can contain.
That being thus arranged, expose it for several
days to hot sun. And while the flower dries, the
sand, which ever accompanies it &amp; holds it, does not allow that in
contracting, it shrivels &amp; closes in on itself, but it must dry in the same state as when you put it there. Now
take heed that you choose for that effect cornflowers,
marigolds, the yellow meadow flowers called
ranunculus or palta
lupina, amaranth &amp; suchlike, and broom,
and others that your experience will teach you.



The sand with which goldsmiths buff enamels or the
white one that glassmakers use, &amp; any lean sand that does
not hold together, pass it through a horsehair sieve, for
it ought not to be so thin. Next, dry it well in the sun for
several days to remove all humidity from it, and
ventilate it like grain so that the dust goes away. Once it is
rid of that dust &amp; well dried, use it as you know.



Pansies are kept thus.