Plants difficult to burn in the noyau

Any plant which has a hard stem &amp; like wood is very
difficult to burn in the noyau, such as asparagus,
thyme, &amp; similar things, because they stay as charcoal
in the small conduits, &amp; if they do not reduce well into
ashes, it is not possible to empty them from the mold.
Some reheat them, to do this, two or d three
times. Others, putting several plants together in the mold,
pass through threads the plants &amp; thees
molds circle of earth,
which is to receive the tempered sand, plusi



This does not proceed from plants that have a stem with lines, because
rosemary burns well, but it is in the nature of certain
plants.








some threads, as much to secure the plants, in order that they do not
rise par when you throw in your clear sand, as to
give them venting when the mold is reheated. For, in doing this,
the mold thread burns &amp; leaves some
empty space around the plants, which serves as vents &amp; places for
evacuating, &amp; to give air to the plants so that they burn better.
For what makes them stay as charcoal is that they burn in a
closed fire &amp; without empty space because of their fine sprigs. Try,
therefore, to thicken the main stem with a little melted wax,
&amp; let it cool, then mold it. And when the wax melts, it airs
it, the principal stem, with space &amp; as if loose so that it burns
better. Or else, anoint them with oil of petrol or
sulfur, of turpentine, oil of
brick &amp; similar things, or aquafortis or
eau-de-vie, or make sands with crocum, iron
scales, loops of iron, emery &amp; things that
withstand several days of great firing.

Animal bones are not so difficult to burn &amp; reduce to
ashes, because once the flesh is burnt, the bones
remain loose &amp; the weight of the quicksilver makes them break
&amp; disintegrate, once calcined &amp; burnt.



Asparagus always stays as charcoal, like little pins.
Try to take it, and thyme, at the beginning, when they are
growing, so that their stem is still thin.