Sal ammoniac and alabaster

 Sal ammoniac, well pulverized mou &amp;
ground dry on marble, molds very neatly &amp; is of a very beautiful release, &amp; once mixed with alabaster, pulverized
similarly, ii ℥ per lb of
alabaster makes it release well. It suffices to moisten it in
a cave or in the serain or, to
be done more quickly, in a piece of paper between a wet
napkin. Take heed that it does not stay for too long, for it
would become so wet that it would not be good for molding
in a frame, but rather en noyau, in which you will be
able to use it well as long as it dries well at ease &amp; far from the
fire. Otherwise the heat makes it swell &amp; pushes the salt onto
the surface, which renders it lumpy. You can in anoint the
medal with spike lavender oil, molding 
en noyau. It is better to put in 4 ℥ of
sal ammoniac per lb, and moisten it in a damp
place for two or three days, &amp; so that
when you take fistfuls, it holds together, without, however,
attaching itself &amp; being pasted to your hand. You
will mold very neatly with it. But let it dry &amp; reheat very thoroughly,
leaving the mold inside so that it acquires strength by
reheating, for it becomes hard as stone &amp;, in this way, is
more certain to release well. Otherwise if you release before having
reheated it, there would be danger of it crumbling in some place
because of its delicateness &amp; fineness, even if the medal has a high
relief. Once you have molded with it, pulverize it as before and put it
back in the damp.



All sand that releases well has body &amp; gives a good hold. Ammoniac
is fatty and a va is nevertheless sandy,
which makes it release well. There is no better bond than salts
appropriate for metals, for once mixed in powder, they get moistened
together &amp; dry &amp; reheat together.




Glassmakers’ white sand from the
mine, mixed with sal ammoniac

There is found in Cominge, near the town of
Aurignac, a sand white mai like
salt and lean, that glassmakers &amp;
potters use, which becomes impalpable ground on
porphyry &amp; is easy to grind. And once ground, it
resembles calcined alabaster. It molds very neatly, and I have
not found any that molds as delicately as this one for lowf relief. It is
excellent to mold en noyau without a frame, having ground it
impalpable with gummed or pure water on porphyry,
then placing it, thick as mustard or a little more, on the medal,
anointed lightly with oil either of olive, walnut, or even
better spike lavender. But to do it better
mo, let it dry by itself, without fire, for one or
two days. Although, if you are in a hurry, you can
heat it well, &amp; it will not crack if it is not put on too lightly.
It is true, being thus suddenly exposed to heat all at once, it makes
some holes &amp; pustules, which it does not do when dried in the cold or
at ease rather than being reheated. Once dry, reheat it &amp; it will
withstand several casts.