







bit, qua so that t you can
take it out if you need to. And take heed that it is necessary that
these points be of the most delicate iron wire possible
which can support the size of the animal. For the more delicate it is, the
smaller the hole that it leaves appears. However, one needs 
different thicknesses of these, because il
de the points which are put in the body
&amp; in thicker places, like under the throat, ought to be longer &amp;
stronger than the ones of the legs &amp; thin parts, where the
needles ought to be subtle &amp; delicate, almost like the
thickest strings of spinets. And it is better that they
be of iron wire, which is firmer than the one of latten.
And if the end of the tail, or the end of a nail or a leg, ought to be
joined to the body, do not put the point there, not to corrupt
it. But place wax, as much as a grain of
millet, between the body &amp; ce
qui the end of the tail, then with a bit of
flattened &amp; hot iron wire, touch this wax &amp; join
by lightly pressing. Thus having placed your animal on the
cake shaped like a mandore, place all around a
circle of the same

 


earth, in this way,

 b
 &amp; join everything well together in a circle, then, with a
big knife, with which you have cut your cake to
the right size, trim the outside which exceeds it, &amp; place there a
piece to close it as you see in b. Then, with a small curved
instrument, mark on the inside of the circle the thickness you want
to give to the mold, which will be for a common snake
as thick as two thumbs, in order that when you
cast in your wetted sand, you will see when it is thick enough. All of
this carefully arranged, moisten well everywhere with good eau-de-vie, with a paintbrush, the body of the animal
which is uncovered. For there is the secret, of the most
kept well hidden, because everything that will be v
touched by eau-de-vie will undoubtedly come out very
neatly &amp; without porosity any small eyes or holes
that one calls porosity, which usually come not at the back &amp; in the
thick sides of the mold, but on the edges. And as soon as you
have thus moistened everything with eau-de-vie, cast
in your wetted sand without letting the eau-de-vie dry,
which evaporates promptly. And wet it thus.



 


and make sure that the point is longish, depending on how much you want to elevate the head, and that it be pointed on both ends. Once placed
thus, plant your snake on the slab of earth, &amp;
arrange the head first and then the rest.







If, after you have placed your animal on your clay
cake, you are distracted with other occupations, rub your
animal with eau-de-vie, &amp; under the belly, so that it
does not dry &amp; attach itself to the earth.

 






If, when you pierce your animal, it renders water from the bottom
of the side of the belly on the slab of earth, clean it well
with cotton for the sand that 

Eau-de-vie in three goes.

would touch it would be lumpy. If
it is on top of the animal, clean it very carefully and touch it
&amp; moisten well with eau-de-vie.









Tempering the sand and molding the first cast

Take a bowl of leaded earth of such size that
it can hold the tempered sand which will be needed de to
fill your mold in one go, which is mei
better than in two goes, because if you do not cast the second wet batch
 promptly, there is a risk that while you are preparing it, the
first one will set &amp; become solid,















such that, while reheating, the two casts will unjoin. Et
pour pl Therefore, for this effect, take several bowls of
different size which have a lip, to cast better. In these, pour
some common fountain water, &amp; mix into it as
much sal ammoniac water as can be held in an
egg, # composed as mentioned.
If you want to cast in lead or tin, because one would
need more for casting gold &amp; silver, the
water being in your bowl, mix
put y your sand in it &amp; not the water
in the sand, &amp; add it a dista dista with such
discretion that il, while stirring &amp; mixing it
promptly with a wooden spoon, it does not become thicker
than clear mustard. And thus, first cast into your mold
lethe lighter part, qui
es as is always at the surface, with a shaking motion, &amp;
da from a little height. And doing so,
when the animal is nearly covered, blow strongly everywhere in order
to dissipate the small and big bubbles that the wetted sand makes &amp;
continue without delay to put all the rest which is at the bottom, &amp;
a little thicker than at the top, until everything is filled, up to the
mark for thickness that you made.

    
 And do not forget to shake the mold
affin while casting, in order that the wetted sand runs
&amp; enters well everywhere. Also, tip your mold up on the side
of the head, which is higher than the body, and thus your mold
will have the same thickness, &amp; you will spare sand. All of this
being carefully done fai, let it set, which will
take a quarter of an hour. Then, release the
clay circle, which can be used another time. And leave it to dry
a little, &amp; separate your mold from the
cake of earth, which also de will
be appropriate for molding right away, and trim the excess with a big
knife, giving || to it the long shape of a mandore.
Rasche


If you can, fill your half mold in one go &amp; with
la pre one tempered batch; it is the best.


#
or two eggs, because there is no risk if there will be more.
And the water If you cast in two goes, it is enough
to put sal ammoniac water at the first bowlful. 


Make it clear like a pureed broth, or like starch
water that women use to make their starch. For
there is no risk in it being very clear, because sand always settles at
the bottom &amp; water separates &amp; remains on top. The sand that one 
scrapes as well mme too weak &amp; soft. And it will not let
itself set quickly, for all things calcined dry out promptly from mixed
water.


    

If you do not fill in one go your mold
tempered with tempered sand, take heed to stir your
second cast with the e p surface of the first,
p by mixing with your spoon or spatula with which you temper it.

    
    

        
Second cast
        

 
 
    
Scrape &amp; cut also away the back of
the mold, which is always the weakest, and adapt it
cleanly thus. And do not forget to make notches around, in order that the
second cast anchors itself there &amp; binds better
            
    
 without changing.
        

Sal ammoniac water is not necessary to small
molds, which require neither a big nor long fire to be
reheated; however, when you put some in, it will only be better. 






