








Molding turtles

The water turtle is more beautiful to mold
because it has prettier scales & straight legs. And those of the
garrigue have crooked ones. They are of long
life; getting ready to put them to death, open their mouth & pass a long
penknife through all the intestines, & then make it swallow
some vinegar mixed with eau-de-vie or urine, as for
snakes. One needs to mold them in several pieces, & the
back itself, sometimes, because the sides for some are narrower than
elsewhere & are not released on this occasion. To make them die, one
ought not to boil them, for they come apart, & even the shell, from the
hot water. They come out better hollow, because their great
thickness corrupts the mold. Those from
water are more vigorous. Those of the
garrigue are thinner, slower & more
sleepy. If you scratch those of the water on their
shells, however sleepy they are, they move. Those of the 
garrigue do not.

They die rather quickly in
vinegar mixed with a little eau-de-vie or urine, as
with all other animals.

They keep themselves, in the
winter, with their eyes closed & are as dead, being
numbed by the cold. They hide in the earth or
under wheat chaff or warm manure, & live
only on the moisture of the earth.



One ought not to mold them as soon as they are dead because they are still too
stiff. But on the following day, you will manipulate them &
fold their legs as you wish.







Molders from Foix

Those who mold crosswise make their sand with
crocum & calcined slate, but slate
always retains its asperity & becomes porous, because it is fatty.
En noyau, it is not good; in sand, it can be accommodated.
They sieve their sand, grind it on porphyry,
and wet it in water, & they take away the finest, which is on
top, then reheat it.







Toad

Once molded, it can be removed without burning it, because it
releases well. Choose the biggest & the lumpiest. Because they
contain a lot of metal, it is best to mold them hollow, for they
come out better. You could make your cast in one piece & large, but
it <-s-> would be awkward to cut. It is best to do it in
three or 4 parts, which are a little wide close to the animal, &
include as much of the edge of this, which is close to the gate, as
can be done. Make also some gate conduits from the end of 






Let the mold cool before opening it, especially for thick
things.




