








Color of gold without gold on silver

Color your applied silver leaf with terre emerita, 
and once dry, give a coat of spike
lavender oil varnish and of sandarac. And it will be
more beautiful than tinsel.





Layer of burnished gold on paper

Make your seat of starch soaked in water &
your gold will burnish very well. Clear starch water
layered on the paper, then dried, & repeated in this manner 3
times, is a good layer for burnished gold on simple paper
& has no body.





Removing stains

Good eau-de-vie removes them if you rub the garment with it.









Seat for gold

Ground terra emerita with some saffron, all
of it tempered with very clear strong glue & passed
through a linen cloth.





Extraction of oils

Apothecaries say that anything which does not adhere to
the mortar while pestling is
oleaginous.



Dragon’s blood


The darker dragon’s blood
is the best & has more of a tint; it is the tear that is found in <-gr-> pieces like
peas and large hazelnuts which look like

.    





    
    


Take a well chosen tear of it which shows off its transparent red.
And in a glass bottle put the best eau-de-vie you can find, in sufficient quantity. <-For
it-> And stop it well and so diligently that it does not vent,
otherwise it would be worth nothing. And leave it thus for a
long time, because the longer it stays <-there->, the
more beautiful & better it will be & it will dissolve if it is
good, otherwise it will become like wine lees. When you want to use
it, make a small hole in the stopper of the bottle & pour a
little & stop it again each time, then apply it on gold.

The good kind of dragon’s blood can be found in
large pieces like pieces of cake this one has no value and is
adulterated, & once broken it shows on its edges scales,
transparent as <-ro-> rouge clair enamel, it is
also lumpy in some parts like small rubies. The eau-de-vie needs to be very ardent &
passed several times.



I put it in common eau-de-vie, mixing in some
aquafortis to give it strength. At the beginning the
water took on a slight tint, but at the end there was only an
appearance of tragacanth gum with which I think they adulterate
the dragon’s blood.



When it is applied on burnished gold, it is prone to break. For
this reason, some coat it with turpentine varnish. Cold delays
the action of the water and the extraction of the color. And for
this reason, one can keep it close to the fire.
