Casting in three frames

One casts in three frames bronze mortars
&amp; similar things, which are easily released, namely the body of the
mortar in one, the two frames the
core in the other. And the bottom of the
mortar core in unthe
third one, for small work because otherwise the molding that
is in it would not be released.





Inquire

    
    



A







Cuttlefish bone

One ought not to cast either tin or lead too hot in it, for
it would burn the bone &amp; come out lumpy. And to
know when it is at a good heat, dip a little piece of twisted
paper into it. If it blackens it without lighting, it is at
a good heat. But if it burns it &amp; catches fire there, it is too
hot. Gold &amp; silver are able to be cast well
there, but it never comes out very neat. To mold something delicate
well, it is necessary that the bone be not so dry
If, for it is brittle &amp; does not release as neatly &amp;
crumbles &amp; flakes. However, before casting in them, dry them, &amp;
especially for gold, which does not want humidity. You will
recognize that they are dry enough when, after having brought the inside
&amp; the imprint of these to the fire, they cry &amp; crackle once
brought near the ear. Then, join them &amp;
lute the joints with a little clay, &amp; make it dry
lightly by the fire, &amp; cast, &amp; then shake the mold or
scratch over rough scales, &amp; let it cool before opening. Usually one
cuts the bone in the middle, and the dullest part and
that which does not have any half circles
    
is the most delicate and smoothest for molding, &amp; thus one always
imprints there the principal; the other is scaly on the inside, as it
demonstrates on the outside. Thus, one does not use this for delicate
things that are molded on two sides. One smooths &amp; flattens these
two halves on some smooth wood, then one scrapes
charcoal on top to make it release well. And to make the
charcoal run evenly everywhere, one knocks on the side of the
hand that holds half of the bone. Once both
charcoaled, one takes the main bone that is
prepared &amp; rounded on the sides, and having set the medal on top,
one tightens and presses it quite strongly.