








Painter

The lake & <-florey-> rosette of
Ghent & others lose their color & die in the
air.

All marble on which a knife can prick is
worth nothing for grinding fine colors.

Chalk has no body in oil. Ceruse is
appropriate. But lead white more excellent. Ceruse is the
whitest, when ground first in water, the lead white
grayish. But <-the white-> it takes on its perfect whiteness in
oil.

When you grind your colors, first clean your workshop
well, for when walking, if you stir up dust, this will damage your
colors, which will never be beautiful if they are not very
<-be-> clean.

Florey must not be mixed with azur d’esmail
or another, for it makes it green.

For palettes to paint, ivory is excellent, knots
of the fir tree, the pear tree, & if it
is a walnut tree, make sure the grain of the wood
runs lengthwise.

<-L-> One always needs to apply imprimatura
<-d->on wood to paint there in oil in
order to fill the holes & unevenness, and make imprimatura with some stil de
grain yellow & ceruse tempered in oil, then soften
with a feather, which flattens better than a
paintbrush. Or when the imprimatura is dry, scrape strongly
with a knife.

To use azur d’esmail in oil, one needs to
choose the most delicate. And to render it subtle, one ought not to grind it,
for this makes it whiten. But one needs to wash it, & the coarsest
going to the bottom, choose the one that is above in the
water or, by inclination, pour out the cloudy water, then
gather the azure.





    The one who makes a profession of working in
oil will hardly work well in distemper if he has not
been trained well from adolescence. For the way of working is different,
because when washing the paintbrush for distemper,
one always leaves it humid. And on the contrary, when one cleans the
paintbrush in oil to soften, one wipes the
paintbrush well. Otherwise, the work would run &
would soon be all disfigured.





The Italians soften by hatching with a large flattened
paintbrush which makes serrations.





And they do not lay their shadow all at once like the Flemish,
but make them hatching lightest toward the light then a little darker
next & finally a little blacker to better make project & come
out.





In distemper do not mix your different colors together
<-But->, for this makes them die, but use each separately. And in
order that they do not dry & that you have time to soften, moisten
the back of the canvas.




