if you want, which will be enough, or else on the two halves.
But because one needs to cast by the tail or from the back of the
animal, make it so that the vents come from the head &amp; the middle of
the body to join to the said tail, where the gate is done, which is the
end of the mandore. NAnd having done your cast, do not forget to make in
it some holes and notches because the metal will run more neatly thus than if
the cast were even, for it gets corrupted in its notches &amp; holes,
&amp; does not go so much at once, &amp; does not become as porous. This
done, mects join tthe two halves of your mold &amp; strengthen the joints,
putting around these some small clamps of iron wire of this shape.

 They
prevent 
the molds from deforming &amp; corrupting while reheating.



    

This is the shape of the clamps







Make the cast, reheat the molds, &amp;c
Note about everything
above |-|

If your snake has been without eating for a long time, it
happens that, when you want to put it to death in urine &amp;
vinegar, it fills with a lot of water &amp; swells, and
next it dries out as you fix &amp; arrange it on the clay
cake, and next it happens that when you have cast your
mold tempered sand on it, &amp; it has set, it
ends up coming out such that between the snake and animal there
is a line of distance D, in which enters
the second batch of cast tempered sand M. Avoid this,
therefore, if you can. But if this cannot be, do not let this prevent
your second cast, for the sand which will enter in this void will be so
weak that it will easily be removed with a small point &amp;
will not have set with the first hardened one.

Note that one needs more feather alum for
molds that should be reheated, like those for gold
&amp; silver &amp; things that one needs to burn inside than for those which release well &amp; that are only for casting
lead &amp; tin. However, do not put too much in either one. 






Animal after release

If, by chance, you gave your snake such a writhing shape
that the place of the belly cannot easily come out, especially
since the head &amp; the tail, which are the two ends, are
thinner, cut everything which is outside, &amp; reheat the
mold so well that what remained inside burns, then pass some
quicksilver inside, &amp; attracting ce qui
the ashes &amp; the burnt bones from the inside, it will
also come out, because the conduit is big, &amp; thus will not sour at
all your material. You can pull really strongly the molded
snake, because it is soft &amp; malleable &amp; obedient, &amp;
the mold, having set, is so firm that, because of this, the
imprint will not be spoiled. 





Mold reheating

After your molds have been reheated le
&amp; cleaned, casting soonest is best, because if you keep them, they
get corrupted and damp. Reheat the thickest part, where the body of the animal is, 
at the top, so that, if there is something inside to burn, it falls to the bottom.

Mark the part on top to recognize it

It can only be good to let the mold die down a little from the outside 
so long as, being well reheated, so long as it remains red on the inside when you will cast.