










or linen & leave it thus for xx4
hours & it will be engraved. But if you should
want to engrave promptly, varnish all your work & boil it in the
said liquor, & it will promptly engrave.





Steel mirrors

X They are called of steel because in times
past they were commonly made of steel polished with
emery putty. But more easily, various kinds are made
with cuivre franc, which is rosette &
tin, because it is cast in a mold & made
round, concave, convex & however one likes, to represent various
forms.
    

So take half rosette copper & half
soft tin, that is to say fine, which has not yet been used.
Put them in a crucible, & first melt the copper
well. And once it is well melted, put in the tin and mix
together. Then cast in the mold, of white stone with no
eyelets, & anoint the mold with oil, & let
it be moderately warm. Then, having
molded your mirror, you can polish it in this way.

Set one of these in plaster in order that it holds firmly,
& then put the other one over it with thin sand in between,
& rub one against the other, whether it be concave or flat, & thus you
will polish two at once. And if you want to polish them on both sides,
you only need to switch them, that is to say put the one that was
polishing into the plaster & the one that was in the
plaster to polish. After having polished them with the
arene you can smooth them with Venice tripoli, 
which should not be sandy, & next with
putty. You polish with
arene using water, but polishing with
tripoli & putty is done
dry. Once polished, you can set it.





Concave mirrors

The concave mirror composed in the aforesaid form produces an
endless number of pretty conceits which seem magic. If someone wants to see
oneself from behind, it is necessary to place the concave
mirror on the ground on its foot, & let it be at a slant;
next, look at it from one pace away. But if you
look at it close up, it will represent you the right way up but
with your face quite large & the hairs of your
beard as thick as




