are not uncovered as much. But because the crayfish is
awkward to burn &amp; clean, one needs to uncover as much as one can,
especially the little legs until the end, for these are awkward &amp; if
they were not to be uncovered and you were to have to pull them, you
could break something in the mold. While uncovering with the
point of a knife, or even a burin or other appropriate
thing, clean very carefully the sand which will be in the joints
&amp; elsewhere with your little brushes. And if something gets
detached, attach it with wax, as said. And attach also the horns
in the same way. And make also the gate, along the end of the little
legs, with some wax. And fill the holes made by the iron
wire point with it. And once everything is quite neat &amp; more
than half is uncovered, oil your ut mold
&amp; n’oubli, after having dipped the reverse in
water, &amp; do not forget to oil all the delicate parts
which are between the legs and the little pincers. Then, rub the
crayfish with eau-de-vie. And make your second cast,
having flattened the first mold, in order that the
clamps join better. Your mold must be wider on the
side that is imprinted than on the back. Do not open your mold
after the second cast unless it has been luted &amp; reheated
&amp; unless what is inside is burned. Do not forget to put
crocum among your sand when you mold crayfish,
for one needs to reheat strongly, &amp; the crocum
withstands marvelously. Molding a crab &amp; a
crayfish, it is all the same. When you have uncovered
your crayfish on one side, only delay making the seond cast as little you can, for el crayfish dry
se out. It is not just about uncovering the
crayfish well, in such a way that you see an entire half, but
take heed that your mold itself, in which you uncover, releases
well, for even if the crayfish were well burned, you
despoui would not be able to open your mold
without breaking.

Repair with
penknives,  files, little
chaples, or burins, &amp;c.



Make all around them, as you see, a gate of wax, &amp; at the end
of the tail, also two or three, from which you make the principal
gate.




Make a gate of wax, elongated in
a line like a thick thread, all along the end of the legs &amp;
at u the extremity of the tail. If there is also
some piece of leg or other part that is further away from the line of
the others, or raised above, or folded on its own, give it a gate of
wax, which from its extremity joins either at the body or at one
of the big legs or at some other place which receives a lot of
metal.

Having uncovered it, attach &amp; secure
with wax the two little hairy horns of the crayfish
&amp; other things which are not en
despoui secured at all.