  For preventing someone from eating a foodstuff Dry some calf’s foot root, otherwise arum, &amp; sprinkle the foodstuff swith it. There is no danger in this. See Mathiol.   For transmuting grain from one vessel to another   Take two small wooden bushels of the same size, which should be hollow on the bottom exterior by about the width of the back of a knife or more. One of these will remain empty, &amp; on the bottom of the other you will glue kernels of grain with starch such that it will be covered entirely with grain, &amp; it will seem to be filled with it. Take also a wooden bell into which you will place as much grain as can be held within the capacity of one of the bushels, and over the top put a simple piece of leather that fits tightly inside the bell. Put all into a bag or a napkin or a folded handkerchief, if you do not want to use a conjuror’s pouch. First show the empty bushel, then in front of the audience fill it with grain, then put it back in the napkin. Next, leave that one there &amp; take the other where the le grain is glued with starch &amp; it will seem to be the first one, filled with grain. Put it under a hat &amp; place the bell gently on the table for the first time. And if you like, promptly &amp; without stopping, show the bottom which will be covered with white leather of the color of the wood. Then pretending to show the bushel that is under the hat, you will turn it deftly to the side that is empty &amp; leave it covered. Then you will command that by invisibilium the grain pass into the bell, which you will have tapped shortly before on the table a little strongly, &amp; the grain will fall to the bottom &amp; cover the piece of leather. Then lift the hat; the bushel semb will be found empty and the bell full of grain, which you will scrape deftly along with the piece of leather    

  For preventing someone from eating a foodstuff Dry some calf’s foot root, otherwise arum, &amp; sprinkle the foodstuff swith it. There is no danger in this. See Mathiol.   For transmuting grain from one vessel to another   Take two small wooden bushels of the same size, which should be hollow on the bottom exterior by about the width of the back of a knife or more. One of these will remain empty, &amp; on the bottom of the other you will glue kernels of grain with starch such that it will be covered entirely with grain, &amp; it will seem to be filled with it. Take also a wooden bell into which you will place as much grain as can be held within the capacity of one of the bushels, and over the top put a simple piece of leather that fits tightly inside the bell. Put all into a bag or a napkin or a folded handkerchief, if you do not want to use a conjuror’s pouch. First show the empty bushel, then in front of the audience fill it with grain, then put it back in the napkin. Next, leave that one there &amp; take the other where the le grain is glued with starch &amp; it will seem to be the first one, filled with grain. Put it under a hat &amp; place the bell gently on the table for the first time. And if you like, promptly &amp; without stopping, show the bottom which will be covered with white leather of the color of the wood. Then pretending to show the bushel that is under the hat, you will turn it deftly to the side that is empty &amp; leave it covered. Then you will command that by invisibilium the grain pass into the bell, which you will have tapped shortly before on the table a little strongly, &amp; the grain will fall to the bottom &amp; cover the piece of leather. Then lift the hat; the bushel semb will be found empty and the bell full of grain, which you will scrape deftly along with the piece of leather       so that it cannot be seen, &amp; you will very subtly with conceit cast it into the bag or pouch.   For transmuting a ball into a thimble, cunning  of leather  Make a small sheath of plain leather, such as cow or morocco, somewhat thick, as tall as three fingers, sewn like the finger of a glove &amp; large enough that two fingertips can fit inside &amp; which, at the tip, which is a little puckered, has a round hole as large as a double liard. Take one two similar boxwood balls, &amp; let one be hollow &amp; open with a round hole on one side only so that the thimble can fit inside. Thus, when you want to perform, you will place your leather sheath on the table with the ball that is not hollow. Pass a stick inside the leather sheath to show that there is nothing there, also show the full ball, and hold the one which is hollow &amp; has the thimble inside it by your little finger &amp; ring finger, and do this with your right hand with which you are holding the stick. Next, you take your leather sheath &amp; place it over the hollow ball which is in your fingers, &amp; making it seem as if you are putting some oribus powder over it, you put back the leather mold that contains the ball with the thimble on the table, then you take the round &amp; solid ball remaining on the table, and command it to enter from under the table into the leather sheath. Then, when lifting the leather, the ball seems to be the same, although it is the hollow one. Then you cover it again &amp; command it to become invisible. And then, lifting the sheath while pressing it, you will remove it &amp; the ball along with it; &amp; l putting it aside with the sheath, &amp; a  in its place will be found a thimble for the ladies whose bottom hurts, that is to say, the bottom of the needle.   