






A means of goldsmiths for molding hollow



They mold in two cuttlefish bones their animal
or other work that they have either already made or modelled in
wax & cast in lead. Once it is well imprinted in the
two cuttlefish bones, they place between these
two bones a paper, & join the
bones & cast. The work comes out split in half. And
then, with <-ch-> a chaple, they
hollow out as finely as they please the two halves cast in gold
or silver, and then solder or braze them.





        
Flies
        

They mold better on a single leaf than <-n-> on a bouquet
or a flower or the branch of a plant, because the single leaf molds in
two halves, which, once reheated, can open and clean well, & the cast is made
better. Take heed when taking the fly to not break the legs & to not
let it dry too much, for then the legs
        

    
    


Rouge clair



Some goldsmiths assay it on gold, thinly beaten
<-esp-> & well burnished with a
chaple. But it is better to assay it on a gold
ingot. And also assay your substances in large or fantastical work,
since if they appear good & extraordinary in large work, they will
show excellently on a common work.



    
  

    
    

fall
off. And if this happens to you, glue with fish
glue the same legs and with wax,
or fashion some out of swine bristle or
spinet string. Fix the leaf
on the clay slab with two
    
points, and the
fly with one point in the middle of the body, &
the legs with some wax.
    





Cleaning and degreasing your works cast from tin and
others

Make some lye, carefully passed through good ashes, and since it is recent & not fatty, 
boil your molded work in it. And
the tallow and fat leaves it.





Arranging plants or flowers for casting




Always put at the top the principal side of the thing, because it comes
out better and neater than the bottom. Make the gate wide & make it so that
the supraplus (which is the
masselote for founders of large castings),
<-And-> especially for silver, which wants the
mold quite hot & to be cast very hot. Very thin things want
to be cast very hot.



When you know that the stem of a flower, burned in a mold which
does not open, is quite reduced to ashes, it is a sign that the
rest is well burned.




