










When it has eaten something, by tormenting it, it renders it up.
And if, after having eaten something, it is thus pressed
underfoot, this pains it greatly & hurts it. If it
is wounded, it will not eat willingly.




Molds

There is nothing better for opening them up than to anoint them with
olive oil, & nothing else. And next, when you
want to unjoin them, soak them in cold water, which is the
secret. <-L-> And you will see that the
oil, although it seems to be imbued, will detach itself, like
grease. Molds become stronger in cold water. And hot
water would dissolve them awkwardly, although once reheated, they
are more handleable & easier to dissolve in the
water.





Wheat oil

Is made on a blade of iron reddened in the fire. And
the oil drips off, which is appropriate for anointing the hair of
a butterfly or similar thing, for this oil is instantly
dry & makes the remainder dry out. It is necessary that the hair or
down of any animal that you want to mold be flat, for being upright, it
would elevate the sand & become porous.

#
If you want to mold
something delicate, like a pansy, some, to give it a little
thickness, more than what is natural, some rub it with butter. But it
is best to anoint it with wheat oil, for it has no body,
& does not obstruct the small lineaments as much, and makes the
flower firm.





Cast of lead and tin

Because tin wants to be cast very thinly, if your medal,
plant, or other thing for molding is <-espe-> thin &
fine, do it so that there is more tin, much more than
lead, namely less than the fourth part lead for three
parts tin. And still, one puts lead only to form an
alloy. On the contrary, if you want to mold something strong &
thick, put a lot more lead in than tin. And in one &
the other you can put a little looking-glass tin, but only a
little, with a little rosin, when you want to cast. Since
then, when molding with fine and new lead, I put into one
lb two ounces of fine tin. And when molding
with fine tin, I put in two ℥ of fine lead
for one lb. I made plants & snakes just like
nature.

<-S[illegible]->



I cast tin almost red, and lead the same, which, however,
had not remained in the fire for too long, for it becomes brittle and
calcines.


