  The work done in Algiers Take a colt of three or 4 years &amp; feed it on rye barley &amp; straw pig cut in the manner one feeds horses in Spain, and water it with good fountain or river water. I do not know if it would be good to water it occasionally with water of sulfurous baths, &amp; to sometimes give it fenugreek or other hot foods, for the intention of the worker is to it to use the heat of its dung, &amp; the climate here is cooler than that of Algiers. Keep it in a warm &amp; close place &amp; so that none of its dung &amp; urine should be lost, of which you will make a heap or two in order that while one cools, the other will be at the appropriate heat to continue. Also take a large glass mattras, as thick as you can, &amp; one finger thick if it can be done, &amp; of the capacity of one pitcher or earthen jug. Around the feast of St. John, put into it a dozen &amp; a half chicken eggs, that is to say, the yolk without the glair &amp; the germ (see). Others say lx yolks. And it will be with this dozen &amp; a half egg yolks put in half an ounce (others say for lx eggs half a lb) of female silkworm seeds. And after having luted the mattras well (I do not know if it is at all necessary for the generation that there be air), put it &amp; bury it in the heat of the dung up to the neck, and leave it there until several f worms are engendered. And then remove the mattras &amp; do not bury it in the dung any longer, but only keep it placed on the hot layer of the dung until all the worms will have eaten &amp; consumed one d another, bustling &amp; stirring, and only one remains. When this is the case you need to feed it at regular intervals, day &amp; night, with the aid of two men, who by intervals will take care of it, and you will feed it with an egg yolk covered with a gold leaf, or with a liquid egg yolk with the gold leaf incorporated; &amp; take good care that it does not want for such food (some say one egg yolk per hour, others three, but the thing itself will demonstrate the practice). Nourished in this way it will achieve its growth in two months or seven weeks &amp; will become like a snake, one empan &amp; 4 fingers long, &amp; one lb in weight, and as its wings begin to grow, one will need to put it to death by making a ring of charcoal fire around the bottle one empan distant from it, and then stopper &amp; lute the bottle well in order that it does not exhale.     Or to be safer, retire from there until the fire has died down &amp; all is cooled, Ap for its exhalation would be dangerous. And for the occasion when you feed it with pincers, b wash your mouth with good vinegar &amp; take some preservative &amp; plug yourself up well. Once it is dead, put it in a linen cloth or a canvas of silk &amp; fold it &amp; hang it from the ceiling, where the air or &amp; sun dry it. Once it is quite dry, pulverize it in a mortar. And keep this powder carefully, because one ℥ of this thrown on iii lb of molten ♁ reduces it to finer ☉ than the other one. But it does not have as much weight. For this work you also need to choose the oldest ♁ that you can, which has often been melted &amp; finely hammered into sheets or other works, &amp; purify it before by melting &amp; throwing it into honey &amp; vinegar. The term of the work is nine months from the feast of St. John until the 25th of April.   Linseed Whoever wants to have it beautiful &amp; p very delicate needs to pick it before the fd seed is perfectly ripe. For if one waits for the seed to be perfectly ripe, the foot is so dried by the sun that it is brittle &amp; breakable. It is true that in this way the seed is reduced by a third.   Colors If you want to keep them beautiful in gum and such that they do not lose any of their true color, put white wine, the whitest and clearest you can, in a bottle with a little tragacanth gum. And having stoppered the bottle, scramble &amp; shake it very strongly together, &amp; let it rest until the tragacanth is dissolved. Also put in a little fine-grained white salt to brighten the whole. Some mix clear water with white wine, and with this mixture they temper the colors without grinding. And these show very beautifully in illumination work.  