avoid putting points, which should not be put except at the
raising of the head, at the thickest places of the body &amp; the simple
&amp; delicate parts in the middle of the lizard’s feet, the
nails of which you will enter into the clay slab, in
order that they remain secure. When you have made the first cast &amp;
uncovered the belly of the animal, do not forget to put small thin
s slabs of wax at the end of the
lizard’s legs. But, if it is a small wall lizard,
lightly cover with wax the entire bottom of the foot,
and and this the wax, being removed after
the second cast, leaves a cavity which fills these small fingers with
metal, &amp; then one repairs them. Take heed therefore to attach
well with wax the parts of the animal which pass one over the
other, in order that the wetted sand entering between two does not take it
away. And if For, if this were to happen mold
would corrupt, the shape in the first place would
spoil corrupt &amp; your mold also, because it would
not have the thickness that it you think &amp; would be
pierced &amp; spoiled. And, even though to avoid this you can make the
mold thicker, however, should l this mishap
happen, you will be able to repair it in this way.







For mending a pierced mold



If the molded animal comes away in some place to not have and
deviates from the stance that you gave it, because it was not quite dead
or because it was not well attached with the iron points
or with melted wax, and it does not have the thickness that it
needs on the outside, at the middle of the swelling, or is pierced,
before removing the animal from inside, uncover what seems to you the
weak part, or the place that is pierced, and make small holes
all around all around, then soak the back of the
mold. And cast promptly on top of the same tempered sand,
which will enter in these openings &amp; mold &amp; attach to the other.
But, one will need to lute this place well afterward. 







Sand of crocum



One can use the mixture of crocum ferri in
molds for silver as well as for gold, for it
firms them &amp; keeps them from cracking &amp; making flashing. And I
believe that for flat things it would withstand bien
de several casts, which, however, for gold &amp;
silver is hardly practiced.





Try, for lead &amp; tin, crocum.