








Counterfeit jasper


        
Thin glass for this effect is very beautiful.

Take horn from which one makes lanterns, quite thin, &
underneath make the figure of your jasper, cornalines,
& other stones, which will be a work more appropriate than on
glass, which is too shiny. And the horn presents a luster
& fatty polish like jasper.

You know how, with scrapings of the said horn, 
roses can be imitated. The <-horn-> colors for
this jasper want to have a base with clear turpentine or
spike lavender varnish. And colors matte in body
are not so appropriate here, although they are very beautiful. One
needs to oil the unpainted reverse with spike
lavender oil.





You can encrust beds with it & on the joints you can throw the
filings of talc or of pins on the fresh cement of the said
joints. One needs to join them with gum ammoniac soaked in
vinegar. To better counterfeit mottled jasper, apply
wool with thick hairs dyed in diverse colors & intermingled.
After you have layered all the colors, scrape oblique lines on them,
then layer gold & silver leaf. If you layer on the
horn colors of turpentine, give it a base of silver
or of tin leaf. You can also file horn & mix
it with strong glue, & layer it onto the joints of the
piece of horn, then even it with a joiner's plane.







Stil de grain yellow

It is made in Lyon from the juice of weld &
chalk mixed together or better yet with ceruse, which is
appropriate for distemper and oil. 







Roses

These are counterfeited either with the scrapings of
<-[illegible]-> horn used for lanterns, or with scrapings of
parchment, very clear & delicate & dyed & employed as you
know.







Purple color

Painters make it beautiful, making the first ground of
common azure, or better yet azur d’esmail, &
next they glaze it with lake, which will be more appropriate for
this if you mix in alum, which gives it a violet tint depending
on the quantity that you mix in.







Powder for hourglasses

It is made very fine & without being subject to rust & by
its weight able to flow; taking i lb of lead, melt it
and skim and purify it from its filth, then pour into it four
℥ of finely pulverized common salt, and
take good care that there be neither stones nor earth. And
immediately after you have poured it, mix continuously very well with an
iron until the lead and salt are well
incorporated, and lift it immediately from the fire, stirring
continuously. And if it seems too coarse, grind it on
marble and pass it through a fine sieve. Then
wash it so many times that the water <-sembl->
becomes clear, throwing away that little powder which will swim
on it, renewing the water so many times that it stays entirely
uniform.


