










when they want to bite or eat something, they do not bite with a
direct attack but with sinuous turns & from the side, as do
Satan & his disciples. It has a small head but
a very long body. The entryway to sin seems small & inconsequential,
but the consequences of it are very great. It abstains from eating seven
or eight days, once it has devoured some
frog. It can swallow three or four of them, one after the
other, and what it devoured is neither corrupted nor consumed in one go
in its stomach, but <-p-> some part little by little,
that is to say bones and everything. And the remains are found as fresh
as when it had devoured them, such that sometimes, when one presses
& torments it, it renders up what it has engulfed, parts of which
are found totally consumed & others as fresh as if it were alive. It
can keep a frog
engulfed for two to three hours & renders it up completely alive.








Toad



When it is big, one needs to mold it hollow, & if you want to make
it have an open mouth, put some cotton inside, & then on the
cotton some melted wax.
    

If by chance you want to mold this vile animal, & if it were to
piss in your hand, it would burn your hand
& itch, as if you had handled nettles. But the most
powerful remedy for this is to put your hand into
fresh earth & to cover it as if you wanted to bury it.
A frog is not so beautiful molded because it has lively skin,
& the other has a lumpy one.



You can mold it hollow, and leaving under its belly an open notch, you
will make it jump with the twisted cord of the saw. Or else, if
it is small, put it on a magnet of its size, cut thinly, then
put it in good vinegar.







Killing snakes for molding

Some put a drop of aquafortis in the mouth,
which stuns them well, such that the head & the part behind
seem to be dead but the mouth remains alive, and when you pierce it
with a needle to fit it to the mold, it moves &
spoils & undoes everything. Therefore, to put them to death entirely, put it
in a bottle of good vinegar & some eau-de-vie. And do thus with lizards & other similar
beasts.



If you want to keep them, you can put them in a pipe full of
earth in a garden outdoors. But your pipe
must be covered with archal wire, for otherwise it would
climb & go up very high.


