  Tempering sand for molds of flat medals Flat medals of wax or metal are oiled very lightly &amp; then are touched with a paintbrush with eau-de-vie. And in order that the mold, wetted with water, takes without refusing the oiled thing, one heats the water well for tempering the sand, for with cold water it would refuse. Medals are oiled because they are not malleable &amp; thus could break the mold. And animals, which are malleable, do not want to be oiled. Hot water should be of such heat that you cannot hold your finger there without feeling strong heat. Temper your sand thicker for flat medals &amp; solids than for lizards &amp; fine things. Your sand having set, clean &amp; scrape your mold on one side &amp; the other, &amp; make a notch at the foot &amp; the border of the medal on the side of the gate, in order that you can take it away better. Lower also the mold, scraping the medal all around, in order that, from all sides, you can take it away without it corrupting the mold. Next, make your scorings around of the the first mold cast mes, in order that the second cast joins with it without varying, &amp; especially make a notch at the bottom of the mold where the head of the molded thing is. Make some also at the sides of the gate. This done, dip the reverse of the first mold in water, oil it, &amp; thus it will not be imbibed. Rub the reverse of the medal with eau-de-vie &amp; secondly cast, tempering in hot water. If you have molded a medal en noyau, having made the first cast &amp; this one having set, outline, with the point of a knife, the surround of the medal, in order that it is raised on the cast &amp; not buried in it. Then having made the second cast &amp; having opened your mold, have take away the medal in one go, with one two knife points q, and that one takes it from the side of the gate &amp; the other from the side of the head, which is opposite.  Take care not to oil your medal too much, for if the oil seeps out, it diverts the sand from becoming smooth &amp; amassing, &amp; makes it wavy &amp; lumpy. One should only touch the middle of the medal of the p with the point of an oiled paintbrush, &amp; then spread the oil everywhere.  Make especially sure that the gate is the widest you can p toward the medal &amp; embraces it well, that the entrance of the gate is ample, always narrowing toward the medal. Do not forget also to notch the entrance of the gate.     If you want to cast gold, silver, copper, or latten, it is necessary that they be perfectly red &amp; inflamed on the inside when you cast, &amp; perfectly reheated two times if there is something inside to be burnt &amp; cleaned. The molds of animals that one burns must be heated in such a way that the animal burns. But if it has thick bones, it is troublesome to pull out &amp; ☿ often breaks some fine things by its weightiness. One does not put ☿ in molds that can open. This readily happens with flowers, the mold of these does not open because they are made all in one go. When you want to reheat your molds, put the clamps on the joints, in order that, when reheating, they do not bend, contract, or break. This is done after the gate is made. The scrapings of the mold can still be used, using them in place of brick, after having reheated them, &amp; also the pieces of the molds that have been used. One lutes with it also important things, like works of gold or silver. One also reheats it, &amp; prepares it with se sal ammoniac water, as spat from Germany, &amp; it is excellent sand for frames for all metals. The molds of things which one needs to burn inside the mold are souf not opened until the thing that is inside is burnt, like with molds of crayfish, crabs, stag beetles, portraits &amp; pieces of sulfured black wax, which do not release well. One ought not to mold on brick or wood because they l’ea drink &amp; attract water too soon, and do not allow the sand to set. It would never be better than on a fresh clay slab. Yet, I have experienced that grey earth dries the mold too soon. The yellow is better.  For medals and flat things it is necessary that the sand be thick enough wet, because it sets quickly. And when the sand is thus thick, one can hit and shake the table where the mold is placed, to make it run everywhere. But when the sand is thin, like for flowers and plants, one ought not to hit, nor when there is something attached with wax or another thing that is subject to coming off, like crayfish legs or similar things. And if the sand is, by chance, too thick, you promptly put in it some pour water. Having put the sand in water, it examine that it is thick at the bottom &amp; thin on top. The thinnest is cast at the beginning, and then blow, &amp; the thickest at the end in order to fortify the mold.   