














ʘʘ

as heavy as before, and like a moderately thick paste, &amp; that it is
not so easy to handle as when it is liquid. It is a sign that it is
cooked enough, which you will know when it also throws off big bubbles or
exhalations, in the middle &amp; around, as long as a
finger. Seeing it in this state, remove it from the
fire, for it is heated enough, because if you were to reheat more, it
would be too much &amp; would not set as well. For when it becomes red
&amp; overheats, it loses its strength &amp; spoils the sand. Leave it
to cool before mixing it with the other sands. And when it is cold,
mix and mold, for the sooner after its cooking you use it, the
sooner it will set.





Catching lizards and snakes

Take a stick and attach a string at the end which
has a knot eyelet slip
eyelet at the end. And there being two or three to distract the
lizard by whistling, approach the eyelet toward its neck,
and when its head is inside, pull. The lizard is more
tedious to catch by hand than the snake &amp;
bites without letting go &amp; grips like pincers.

Snakes can be caught by hand, provided
that it is covered by a thick woollen cloth, for the
teeth of the snake stay in the cloth &amp; cannot
pierce like they would with a linen. The dangerous ones are
recognized by their blue &amp; asses aseurés
azure eyes. They hardly ever bite in
water, which crayfish catchers
experience.

The sand mixture is of two parts of plaster, pulverized
&amp; reheated as said, &amp; of one part of tile,
reddened et p pre in a good
fire after the first cooking &amp; then finely pulverized, and of
feather alum, half as much as of the brick, namely two
full crucibles of plaster, one of brick
&amp; a half of feather alum. There can never be too
much feather alum, for s this is
what gives bond to the sand, and because it does not burn, it makes sand
withstand the fire without cracking &amp; bursting. Otherwise, without
it, the sand would not withstand it. This sand, thus composed, is proper
for all metals, but if you want to use it for gold, one
needs more feather alum &amp; than the aforesaid 
composition, and mix in some crocum ferri. For it is this one that attracts gold.

It is necessary that all sand with which you want to cast well,
withstands the fire well, that is to say that it withstands
abon c a great firing without
getting spoiled.

Feather alum is awkward to pestle, and it does not
pass through the sieve. Thus, one needs to grind it finely on
marble. And the white one que v
in powder that apothecaries sell is good. It is
ground better su in the mortar by pestling
&amp; dragging the pestle, thus you will render it very
fine.

Crocum ferri must be set ablaze in a
glassmaker’s fournaise for four
days.


















Molds can only be used once because for
delicate things, like wormwood &amp; others, one needs to break
them, but before one needs to dip them well into water in which
the twice reheated things dissolve easily. Otherwise, you would not be
able f to release your work without danger of
spoiling it.

Good feather alum is white and has a luster as
of white c silk. It is in pieces
long as a finger, &amp; is very breakable &amp; wooly
as down. The one made of stone is harder &amp; not so
good. Il The best of the aforesaid quality is
fetched in France, near Rouan. The feather alum for our sand is pestled in a mortar and is
further ground on marble, especially since one
cannot think of passing it finely through the sieve, for it is
so fat &amp; wooly that it would not pass through it. It is this, with
its small soft qui &amp; thin filaments, which gives
binding to the sand in a much more excellent fashion than
cloth shearings in the founder’s earth of the founders
of great works, because these cloth shearings &amp;
cloth waste burn and feather alum resists the
fire.

To enclose the molds, when you em throw
onto the things to mold your liquid sand, make your a circle
&amp; surround with well beaten fatty earth.

Archanum omnibus fere reconditum est in re fusoria,

utvidelicet res exprimenda formis, sive herba sit sive
animal

ut lucerta, in af inting
inmergatur primum in vini spiritum

aprime rectificatum, deinde pulvere composito aspergatur

sive illinatur (si pulvis in formam pultis redactus sit, ut

assolet).

When you want to mold hollow, it is necessary that the
core be of the same material. And if the snake or
the animal is curved or folded, one ought to make the core of
several pieces.

Test whether distilled vinegar is
appropriate for eating away &amp; dissolving what will be in the animal
molded hollow.



If you know that your plaster is not strong enough to withstand
the fire without cracking, do not be so scrupulous an observer of the
mixture put here that sometimes you mecties would
not diminish the quantity of feather alum
la little bit, for it softens the
molds with its softness. Once reheated, do not pulverize it on
this occasion as fine as said, but leave it as the
apothecaries have ground it, for it does not hinder the
neatness of the cast &amp; gives more binding. When the sand
mold, estant having set, retains the color of brick and is reddish, it is firmer.














To hold the cores, some use wire of the same
metal that they cast because it reduces with &amp;
melts with its counterpart, but because when melting or folding, the
core changes, some find it better to r use
iron wire, sharpened at the ends, because it holds
firmer &amp; having delicate ends, it appears as no more than a point of
a needle. And one can apply gold or silver before using
it for a work. If it makes a hole, one covers it with a small
chisel.

Eau-de-vie prevents the sand from becoming porous &amp; does
not make little holes on the edges of the mold if the thing to
mold is well dampened with it. The holes &amp; blisters &amp; bubbles
are not made on the side of the mold, which is thick, but at
the edges, which are thinner.

One casts with common silver, with which goldsmiths
commonly work, which alloys indifferently Et que.
And when one were to cast with solder, it would run even
better.

Spat is a whitish stone which can
be found in Germany, &amp; mainly in Augsburg, which
one uses for the most excellent sand that can be found for lead,
tin, copper, silver &amp; gold. And the more
it is used, the better it is. It is appropriate for casting flat things
in a frame. For round things, it is not as fitting nor does
it hold in the fire as well as the aforesaid one made with
plaster.

The shreds of cui thick, greasy leather
are pgood to cast in the molten
copper and latten, for it cleans it &amp; removes from it all its
filth. 





Spalt

Spalt is white like cooked plaster and can be found in
mounds and stones formed in long scales &amp; long veins. It is
very soft, such that with a fingernail one can scrape
it, &amp; makes a powder like our chalk from Champagne.
And because everything which comes from the earth is mixed
with some other substance, to purify it, one grinds it, coming from the
quarry, quite coarsely, then one mixes it with sal
ammoniac water. By putting in a piece the size of a
walnut in a large bottle of water, and





