






Next, when it is well <-b-> taken, cut the top
of the tree that exceeds your tree, <-ne-> three or 4
fingers above the shield for the first time, and
<-apr-> then, at the closest point, in order that it
closes. But heed well that when you make your shield no small hole
remains at the back of the sprout, for this would signify to you that
its root would be broken, & your graft would never take; but make it
so that the back is intact. This type of grafting is practiced
from mid-May, so that the trees have already budded
& made new
    

        
issue, until the beginning of
August, and so that the trees are in sap. Almond
trees, which by their nature are drier, lose their sap earlier, therefore
those who want to graft onto them mericotons,
apricots & grafts of trees with pitted fruit, which are the
best there, they are grafted in the month of
January. Generally trees with pitted fruit, like
mericoton peaches, are grafted in clefts. One says
that trees <-de-> grafted en piolet or by
shield are later in bearing fruit than those by cleft.




               
Nightingale
        

It is necessary that the iron wire of its cage be of the
thickest, in order that, thinking of leaving, it will not be
hurt. Cover, from the moment that it is taken, its cage with
canvas.
    

One needs to feed it the first
day, <-giving->
<-uy-> taking it out from its
cage into the hand & opening its beak, & with a
small wooden pin, put it in its throat & make it
        



  

    
        
        Nightingale
        
        
            
            It needs to have a cage made like a barn,
            like those for calendras, doubled with green cloth,
            because it fears the cold. And for making it accustomed to
            eating when first it is put in the cage, one needs to give it
            ants with soil at the bottom of the cage, to
            make it accustomed to pecking <-then it->, and give it
            chopped sheep’s heart & immediately some
            eggs & mealworms.
        
    
    


Gardening

It would not be very careful to cultivate oraches in one’s
garden, because when soup &
broth is kept a little bit cold because of it, it engenders worms in it.





        
        
            swallow. And continue thus until
            it is no longer opinionated. This is done
            for sustaining
            it,
            for
            if it
            were to
            become thin,
            it would die.
        
        
    
    
    



Fountain maker

As you will see below in the discussion of the
molder, reheated plaster promptly mixed into
water & put on the joints of the conduits of fountains
<-s-> resists as much as any stucco.







Catching nightingales

See the 15th folio after
this

For trapping them, one needs to observe their nature, the food that
they like the best, & the season of their pleasure. The
nightingale, as long as it sings, maintains a territory for
itself alone. Approach, therefore, making as if searching the ground for
something. And taking some worms which come from old meal or
from beneath kneading troughs or mills, which it is fond of, put some on your hat attached
with a pin or otherwise, in order that it wiggles. And at five
or six paces from the hedge where it sings, make a hole in the
ground & put in some worms and your device of little
crossed sticks. It will be anxious for you to leave so it can go
see what you have done, and seeing worms, it will enter.


Some sell them on trees.

The coolness of the evening
and the morning, near fountains & shaded places, are
more appropriate for taking them.



