eats by itself. And to entice it better, you could add amongst the
meat &amp; the egg some live mealworms, for it is
very fond of them.






Crocum ferri

It is excellent plastered on wounds to stop the
blood. The best is made of needle filings.



Crocum ferri hardens molds, once reheated,
&amp; feather alum, the more there is, it renders them softer
&amp; sweeter.






Anatomy

 One needs to skin the animal &amp; boil it, or else skin it &amp;
put it into good quicklime.






Making silver run

If it is for a large work, arsenic &amp;
tartar, pulverized &amp; thrown on the melted silver, makes it run
If it is pou and suffices. But for fine work, one needs some
æs ustum, filings of
latten of thin copper, u
 antimony, sublimate, finely pulverized.
This From this gets made a mass that does not sour. If the s plaster is good, one ought
not to add crocum for silver, but one puts more
feather alum. It needs also some melted common
salt &amp; some saltpeter with the aforesaid drugs:
arsenic, tartar, æs ustum, copper
filings, antimony &amp;c.

See the second leaf following.



Sciscitatio dubia



A little tallow and arsenic


    
    
    

    



Keeping dry flowers in the same

 state all year


This is a rare secret, &amp; which gives pleasure for adorning
tables, rooms &amp; cabinets out of season,
when winter denies flowers. Take heed, therefore, to
ce pick them when they are in full vigor &amp;
growing. For if you were to take them when their season
is past or when they are starting to wilt, they would not keep.
Having thus chosen them, therefore, take sand, the leanest &amp;
driest you can find, which should be very fine, like that which
goldsmiths use use to work
enamel or like that for stampings. But above all, it must not
make dust, nor remain on the hand, or leave a mark on it
when you have pulverized it &amp; then poured it from your
hand. For it is



        
River sand washed by the current of the
waters is good, being passed through a linen cloth
to shake the powder.
    
    

+
Flowers are also kept in their same beauty in distilled vinegar
vin a well sealed vessel which does not
allow any wind, which should be well sealed with wax &amp;
mastic. Carnations &amp; roses, the residue
of common vinegar makes them rot. If the sand makes
dust, &amp; clings to the flowers, &amp; is not easily removed
with a paintbrush, it is no good. The leanest is the
best.
    
    


+

Make sure your box is well joined, in order that the sand
does not trickle out. Keep it uncovered in sunlight and
remove it from the serain &amp; the moisture of the
night, &amp; cover it &amp; keep it in a dry
place.




That Take heed not to put the said flowers in big
vessels, for when one pulls out one, one needs to pull out all. 




Take good heed not to pick your flowers q in rainy and
humid weather, but when the sun has been shining on
them.