












Lake takes long to dry in oil and for that reason one must
grind some glass with it. But one needs to choose cristallin
because it is cleaner. And because it would be too difficult to grind by
itself, one must redden it on the fire, then when entirely red throw it
into cold water, & it will crumble & pulverize
easily for grinding it afterward. Being well ground <-it-> with a lot of
water, it resembles ground lead white, but for all this it has
no body. I think it would be good for casting.



Lead white is made with plate lead, beaten thin & put
under the dung heap.



White varnish of turpentine or of spike lavender
oil and turpentine is colored with pulverized
terra emerita, making it boil together. It gives a gold
color on silver and more beautiful if it is burnished. It is dry
in a quarter of an hour. Aloe would make brighter
color still, but it takes long to dry & the other is dry in a quarter
of an hour, in winter as well as
summer.



Good lake moistened with saliva is promptly rendered dark.
That from Florence is too gummed.



If you make a layer of printers’ ink on velvet
and there apply gold leaf and then stretch the velvet, it
will appear grainy as if there were gold powder disseminated on
it.



Vermilion ground by itself is wan and pale, but ground after
lake, it is more beautiful.

For ridding marbles of grease, one grinds
common ashes on it, which is good afterward to make the first
imprimatura of a panel that is prepared in oil in order to seal
the cracks & chinks of the wood. It has more body than
chalk & it has <-chalk-> a certain fattiness.
One mixes it with the said chalk or <-ra->
with the colors collected from the vessel where one cleans the
paintbrush. It is desiccative and spares the color.
<-On-> Once this first imprimatura is made on the wood, one
scrapes with a knife to even it. Next, one makes there a second imprimatura
of ceruse or of the meanest colors mixed together. In
a painting in oil on canvas, one applies only
one imprimatura, and the same ashes can be used there. Also, after one
has ground a color, one grinds some pith of coarse bread on it to
rid the marble of grease.


