










in a round form to cast it in gold and silver, put
only in your wax what you prepare for this effect
sino from all these drugs, except casting with
melted sulfur, since it is melted, &amp; candle
smoke. The melted sulfur goes to the bottom and nevertheless
leaves its quality in the wax, making it melt promptly in the fire
&amp; giving it firmness. In this way, you can melt in the fire this
roughed out ci figure of wax. But if it is
composed of ceruse or suchlike, it is necessary that you
put your mold in boiling water.



For figures of flat wax, there is no need for all this, for the
wax releases &amp; does not stay in the la
mold.




When the cast of tin or lead becomes porous



If your cast work has become porous, it can be repaired with very hard
wax which you can gild afterward with silver or
gold. To prevent this, if you cast thin, the alloy of one
℥ d’est of lead for
one lb of tin is good. But if you cast with lead
for a thick thing, one needs for one lb of the
latter, two ℥ of tin, for the
lead, being fatty &amp; weighty, carries more. From this alloy, I
cast a large lizard like a natural one. In thick things,
if which keep their heat a long time, if there is little
tin, it makes it porous. Your mold must not be cold, but
of such a heat that you can handle it without harm, or that you can
keep your finger in the gate without burning yourself.
It is also necessary that your lead or tin be as if red.
Melt first the lead &amp; then the alloy of tin on top.
And as you want to cast, put a piece of rosin &amp; then a
little looking-glass tin. If you put too
much lead into the tin, it does not run very thin. And to know
this, if l the tin cries loudly,
it is a sign there is not too much lead. If it cries weakly, that
means that is there is too much. Take heed



You can solder with the l’es same substance,
then repair it with the burin, file,
chaple &amp; suchlike.




Tin is a metal that penetrates, that becomes porous &amp;
burns, and is fanciful to use, more than gold and
silver.




Lead wants not only to be red, but also lively &amp; runny &amp;
liquid as water, which is a sign of its perfect heat, &amp; the
mold ch is so hot that you can bear putting
your finger in it. Do not open until it is
cooled. It is a sign of a good cast, as much for it as for gold
&amp; silver, when it exits by the vents.


















not to open your mold too hot, for this sours it, makes it
porous &amp; contracts the tin, &amp; makes the molded thing
break. Also, do not quench your hot mold in water, for
this makes the le met tin or lead
contract.




Mold made in two casts

It is opened, once reheated, to clean it; next, one puts the
clamps on again, one lutes the mold &amp;
especially the joints, then one slowly dries the earth. And then,
as it no longer smokes, one leaves the mold to cool until you can
hold it without harm. Next, put in the presses or in the sand
in a terrine, &amp; cast in tin. For if you
were to cast in silver or gold, it would be necessary that
your mold be reheated twice &amp; cast when it would be completely 
red.



If your mold f, through the fault of the
plaster, retracts in the fire, you need to open it
after the first reheating to tighten it again, &amp; clamp it
and lute again, and tighten again.




Method for reheating the molds

Light charcoals in the forge, &amp; then arrange
them in rows in a corner of it, according to the size of your
mold, in such a way that it can be furnished with three or 4
fingers all around, and especially at the bottom of
the mold, which is the thickest and which. Your
charcoals thus arranged, place your molds on top of
them, &amp; not on a grate, as some do, because they
would take the fire too harshly. And leave for some time thus, &amp;
little &amp; by little, warm your oven, always adding some lit
charcoal. And as long as the mold is damp, the
charcoals will be as if died down from below. But as it dries,
they will kindle by themselves. And when it is dry on one side, turn it to
the other. And when it is dry on both, &amp; it will no longer smoke. At
that moment, invigorate the fire &amp; cover it with lit
charcoals. And as it will begin to redden, do not blow the
charcoals with the little bellows, for this would make it
blow burst. And similarly, when it is red, keep it well
covered with lit charcoals &amp; do not uncover it, for it would
crack. Make sure wind from a window does not beat upon it. Let
cool



When you want to reheat your molds, &amp; be they
luted or not, mark on the belly the place to put at the bottom,
against the lit charcoals, que because if the
ardor of the fire were to make them crack, it would be better that this be
at the belly &amp; from underneath than on the back.



If your mold is small, one ought not to leave it
rest so much in the fire, for it corrupts and cracks there,
for it reheats more quickly than a big one.





