








For making millas 

It is necessary to have millet pilled to remove the
husks and then you will clean it well. Next one needs to
grind it again quite finely and pass it through a hair sieve
quite finely. This done, it is necessary to mix the flour with
melted fresh butter and milk, and that there be
as much of one as the other, in such a manner that it is very light in color,
like the dough to make fritters. And you will put in egg
yolks according to the quantity of flour, so that it amounts
to two egg yolks for each millas.
Then you will put in some saffron, if you like, to give
them a little color.

Next, you need to have molds, and it is
necessary that they be earthenware, in the fashion of the crown of
a catholic hat, but it is necessary that they be open at both ends. And
then, having made a good fire, you will clean the place in the
hearth where you want to put your
millas, and then you will take your molds and
grease them quite heavily in order that the dough does not stick when it is
cooked. Having done that, you will put your said molds on the
well-cleaned place in the hearth and will put a
little flour at the bottom and fill them with the aforementioned
dough. Next you will cover the said molds with
lids which will be made like the molds, but it is
necessary that they be larger and not be open at the top. Then having
done that, you will put a little hay on the said lids
and plenty of embers, and make a good charcoal fire all around.
That done, you will uncover one of them soon thereafter and see when it
is cooked. It should be hard.







Glassworker

Glass from Lorraine is smoother & more even than
plate glass and it is sturdier & more durable. But commonly
it is stained by veins, in straight lines as if tanned, which happens
because the glassmakers, having made it, put it when totally
hot on straw, which stains it in this way. However, this
is removed with varnish & salt & other
drugs that the glassworkers put on. Glass from Lorraine is sold by the bundle & each
bundle is composed of three tablets.
The bundle costs usually x sous.
Plate glass is <-sold in-> made in France, it is
whiter & clearer, but alternately it is not so durable as that from
Lorraine. It is also commonly blown & in that case, it is
better to make little diamonds rather than large square pieces in the
shape of a frame, because they cannot be set quite evenly.



Plate glass is sold by paniers. Every
panier contains 24 plates that are
commonly sold at x or twelve lb.


