  Sheath maker Sheath makers use small, very delicate skins of lambs and young goats, almost like parchment and keep them constantly re-moistened in humid places. When they want to imprint some history, they layer them in the hollows of their figure, then put over the top fine fatty earth with which cloths are rid of grease, having pressed &amp; beaten it well &amp; rendered it moderately humid and soft. Then they put on the earth a small even board and put the whole in a press and let it dry there. After the earth, only the leather remains neatly imprinted  of the size of a pea. And then you give the leather two or three layers of copperas black and iron scale, one after the other, as even as the tanners do. And this dye, being astringent, makes the leather shrink &amp; strengthens it and makes it imprint better. Once dry, one glues canvas on the back with strong glue. In this manner one can promptly imitate big statues &amp; very subtle medals and paint &amp; decorate them &amp; are light and portable &amp; last a long time. That which is imprinted on a relief is done differently and can be retraced with a hot iron.  Painter Good crayons are not made with good glue but with women’s milk. Images made of carton, once dry, have to be soaked in thoroughly thinned and clear melted resin. This strengthens it, otherwise they turn limp in wet weather. Venice masks are made with the hollow &amp; the male face of copper. The Flemish do not use any whites for flesh colors in oil other than lead white because the ceruse turns yellow. 4 or 5 year-old walnut oil which is clear is the best color, it keeps off dust. The kind which has recently been drawn with the press in the manner of almond oil is white, especially if the walnuts’ skin is removed.   

  Sheath maker Sheath makers use small, very delicate skins of lambs and young goats, almost like parchment and keep them constantly re-moistened in humid places. When they want to imprint some history, they layer them in the hollows of their figure, then put over the top fine fatty earth with which cloths are rid of grease, having pressed &amp; beaten it well &amp; rendered it moderately humid and soft. Then they put on the earth a small even board and put the whole in a press and let it dry there. After the earth, only the leather remains neatly imprinted  of the size of a pea. And then you give the leather two or three layers of copperas black and iron scale, one after the other, as even as the tanners do. And this dye, being astringent, makes the leather shrink &amp; strengthens it and makes it imprint better. Once dry, one glues canvas on the back with strong glue. In this manner one can promptly imitate big statues &amp; very subtle medals and paint &amp; decorate them &amp; are light and portable &amp; last a long time. That which is imprinted on a relief is done differently and can be retraced with a hot iron.  Painter Good crayons are not made with good glue but with women’s milk. Images made of carton, once dry, have to be soaked in thoroughly thinned and clear melted resin. This strengthens it, otherwise they turn limp in wet weather. Venice masks are made with the hollow &amp; the male face of copper. The Flemish do not use any whites for flesh colors in oil other than lead white because the ceruse turns yellow. 4 or 5 year-old walnut oil which is clear is the best color, it keeps off dust. The kind which has recently been drawn with the press in the manner of almond oil is white, especially if the walnuts’ skin is removed.     One needs to make at least three layers of flesh color to accomplish faces in oil. And at the beginning, one puts the black and umber where it is appropriate. Next, the heightening with lead white must not be put on the black. Flesh colors, and  where the ceruse enters will yellow in five or six months, but lead white does not change. Florence lake is better than that from Flanders for in Florence the best dyes are made. To make a beautiful flesh color, the reddest &amp; liveliest lake is the best, for the kind that contains purple &amp; violet, by admixture of too much alum, makes flesh color like that of one who is very cold. That is why ladies, wanting to color their cheeks, grind Florence lake very finely, then fill a little cotton with it, which they next wrap in a little fabric of Cambray which is clear. And thus they pounce the lake on their cheeks &amp; then, with another clean cotton, they soften it. Cristallin having been ground with water appears to be have body, but with oil it does not have any. It is ground with lake &amp; with asphaltum, which would not dry for a very long time without this. Spike lavender oil is commonly put with lead white, d not entirely pure but mixed with a little walnut oil. The said spike lavender oil would not be good for lake &amp; colors that do not have body for it would make them glitter, but with those that have body &amp; are somewhat fatty, it is quite appropriate. Verdigris and orpiment must first be ground with urine before thinning them with oil. Thus they are beautiful &amp; do not die.   