Casting

Lead, which is mortified &amp; weighty, wants to be cast hot,
more so than tin. And when it is not hot enough, it makes lines
in the medal. It Straw burns in it, however little
hot it is. One can make a solder so soft &amp; runny that it can be
melted in a tin dish. It is composed of one
part looking-glass tin, one part soft
tin, &amp; another part lead. It runs very neatly
and is cast in leaves, but the work is very brittle &amp; breakable. The best solder is the common one for casting well, but
is leaves certain points lumpy. Alloy lead with
tin so that the ingot that you will cast comes out even &amp;
shiny &amp; polished, &amp; without any eyes or bubbles except for a
small point in the middle. And this sign will tell you that there is
enough tin, otherwise the lead dominates too much. Sand is
good for lead &amp; tin. The good one is very thin &amp;
fine &amp; lean, which nonetheless sticks together between one’s
fingers. The sand wants to be reheated before putting
it to use. And once to mold with it, it wants to
be much moistened &amp; then reheated, not all at once nor with a burst
of fire, for this corrupts &amp; makes it shrink &amp; crumble as well.
But if you reheat it gently, it renders itself very stiff, once well
moistened. One ought to pass it through a shirt
sleeve for the finest one, in order to put it first on
the piece to mold.

One makes a solder with quicksilver
but which is white, but it is brittle. Make it so that your frame 
joins well &amp; that one does not see the light between the joints.

The Germans cast their leads very thinly, because it seems 
they come out better than very thick ones, but in order that
are not too pliant, being so thin, they mix a little tin with the
said lead, which otherwise would bend like wax.

The blackest lead, so some say, is the best &amp; the softest
&amp; which runs the best. You will know its goodness by rubbing it
with your finger, which will render it very black
immediately.

The alloy good for running lead &amp; tin is per one
lb of lead, one lb &amp; a half of tin
aultr, in order that the tin exceeds more than one
part. It is solder which flows well &amp; is good
for casting, but it is brittle.



To make the lead flow well, one puts in a little
quicksilver.



Rub cuttlefish bone on a well evened table to
flatten it &amp; one against the other &amp; pierce through the two bones
with pegs to mark the place.




Cuttlefish bone molds lead better than
anything else. But try it to see if it needs reheating. One ought
to mold on the back of the bones &amp; from this side for the
marrow is more delicate there.





The bone marrow toward the tail is more delicate &amp; does have
not as many stripes &amp; molds more cleanly. The shell which
holds the marrow, once calcined, is good for making sand.





When you cast lead, you need to cast it cast very
neatly rather hot, &amp; not at once &amp; shake the
frame a little &amp; cast two or three times. However, if it
is cast too hot, it will rise up &amp; swell. When it is very hot, it
becomes blue, let it then pass this color deva &amp;
rest a little before casting.



Some, such as printers, mix iron or pin filings 
in the lead, but in order to render it
hard. But this renders it brittle &amp;not it breaks under
the hammer.



Take a wirebrush to clean your molds.