








Keeping fruit for the entire year

℞ a glass ampul with an opening capable of
receiving cherries and plums or whatever fruit that
you want. Put in some hot water for the space of two
hours. And when your water is cooled, throw it out &amp;
turn the opening upside down on a quite even &amp;
table, &amp; in a room where there is not a drop of air &amp;
of wind. Then en prepare a stopper of new
wax, wrapped in waxed canvas, and adjust it to the
ampul quite precisely in order that it will be all ready to
stop it when you will have put in the fruit. And when you will have
delicately picked with your hand the fruit without it
being corrupted &amp; on a warm &amp; dry day, return to the
well-closed room, where neither wind nor air may enter,
&amp; put it gently &amp; with dexterity in the bottle. Then
stop the bottle well with the stopper &amp; lute it
&amp; making the lute if it seems good with some quicklime &amp;
oil, &amp; such that no water may enter in. Then put your
bottles in a vat full of water, during the
summer Et lhiver pourceque la cave s in
a cellar, and in the winter put your bottles
into a basket furnished with some weights &amp; lower
it to the bottom of a deep well. For in the winter
the water of the vat would be too cold if the cellar
is not quite warm, for one needs the water to be like river
water.





Molding

If you want to promptly mold something in half relief that
comes to hand, fold some paper in five or six doubles,
&amp; place it on the medal &amp; make sure the
paper is folded on the back of the medal so
that it is well secured. Next, take a stick, broad at one end
&amp; pointed at the other, well softened, and rub well on the
paper, &amp; with the point of the stick retrace
the lines &amp; proceed until you recognize that your imprint is well
done. Then, at your convenience, slightly rub oil with a
paintbrush lemp on the
paper imprint and cast in tallow or
wax or sulfur, &amp; the paper, without
burning, will render your portrait neat, which you will afterward be able to
mold in plaster or tripoli, and then in
lead &amp; other metal.





Polished carton of little thickness &amp; a little
moistened is proper. Then if you want, strengthen it with
paper glued on the back.

