   A means di far correr lotnegra Take white arsenic, two ounces, 2 ℥ Orpiment or yellow arsenic, two ounces, 2 ℥ Aes ustum, two ounces, 2 ℥ fine copper filings, moderately ground, 2 ℥ Antimony, 2 ℥ Rock salt, 2 ℥ Raw tartar, 2 ℥ Sandiver, 2 ℥ Saltpeter, half, that is to say 1 ℥ Coarse common salt melted, half, 1 ℥ Sublimate, half, 1 ℥ Borax, half, 1 ℥ Sal ammoniac, as much as borax, that is to say 1 ℥ Take these substances, of the best kind you can find. Weigh them as said above, and pestle them separately, keeping your face covered, over the nose &amp; the mouth, from the eyes down, to avoid the exhalations of arsenic, sublimate, and orpiment. Mix them well, all together, then put them in a good crucible that is so large that the substances can have the fourth or fifth part as empty space. Cover the crucible with a good tile, adapted in a circle precisely on its opening. And having bound it from top to bottom and on the sides with iron wire quite strongly, lute it with earth mixed with dung or founder’s earth that artillery founders use. And in this, be careful &amp; diligent, &amp; do not forget to mix in pestled glass throughout the lute to fortify your crucible in such a manner that it takes no air, for the substance would be worth little, because the 4 five last ingredients would be exhaled.   Note that you need to lute well your crucible, in order that the substances do not take air, for they are exhaled.  Lute well your crucible, in order that it does not break. For if it breaks, the substances evaporate &amp; the fumes of it are dangerous. If within 12 hours it is not melted and mixed, it will not be well made.   Goldsmiths who have knowledge of this substance sell a denier of it for 5 sous to other goldsmiths, &amp; especially to those who work in plate and large wares, for at the end of their works, they can solder over the first solder by means of this mixture. In general, all those who want to mold &amp; cast something delicate. This material should not be divulged, lest it be abused.  The grain is like broken steel.     Your lute being dry, put, in the early morning, your crucible in a four à vent, &amp; at the beginning, give slow fire, as much for reheating your crucible as for gently letting the fury of the saltpeter pass. Then, invigorate little by little &amp; with judgment the fire. And there leave in the full vigor of the fire your substances for 12 hours or a natural day. Make each time a good quantity of this substance, so as not to do it often, because the fumes, which are dangerous, could hurt you. And before working at it, take in the morning good buttered toast, and hold the said butter, or zedoary, or gold coins, in your mouth, and ada cover your face with a cloth from the eyes down. From this mass, the crust will serve you make run to clear the great works of the silver from the metallic mass like snakes &amp; similar things when it starts to melt. But And then, the grain that will be at the bottom of the crucible should be put aside for principally delicate flowers and herbs putting a little in the melted silver when you want to cast it However it is necessary to always put a little of this grain in the silver when you want to cast it is well melted and when you are ready to cast. Thus, do as you make fine tin on copper, &amp; for looking-glass tin on lead and on tin. And just as looking-glass tin sours lead and tin too much if you put it in too great a quantity, likewise, the grain composed of the aforesaid substances would sour your silver if l you were to put in too much, and obscure it. This aforesaid composition will suffice you for a long time, when it has been for a whole day on a gentle gentle fire at the beginning &amp; invigorated degree by degree until the end. Then, having given it one load of charcoal, let it consume it by itself, &amp; let your crucible cool. Next, break it. You will find two hard slabs &amp; cakes in the crucible. The upper one is as if petrified Once, composed of salts, sublimated &amp; mixed together. The lower one is metallic, composed of filings, aes ustum &amp; antimony, having the grain very small. Pulverize the upper cake, made from salts, &amp; put some to clear, &amp; clean the silver, and the metallic grain will serve you to put in the melted metal.  Charcoal fire  Or else after you have had your drugs pestled by some rustic. And having put them in your crucible, &amp; the latter luted &amp; dry as said &amp; placed into the furnace, have the fire managed by a shop boy familiar with charcoal.   One sells well to silversmiths this metallic mass to soften their solder, because when melting, latten exhales. And with a little of this substance, they solder over the other solder.   