










becomes porous. Most importantly, make it so that the cast is always
higher than the molded thing, because usually the sand, being reheated,
swells &amp; if the par ce in the middle,
&amp; in this way, the molded thing remaining higher than the cast, the
metal cannot run into it easily or enter at all. Also, make sure
that the mold &amp; the cast are well reheated. Cast also all
at once &amp; out of the wind. And if your medal is really
thin, put a card or two or three thicknesses of
paper underneath, when you want to mold it. In
this way the mold will be lower than the cast. Cast also at the
place where your medal will be more es the least
thick &amp; where there will be less relief.




Excellent sand for lead, tin, and
copper

D

Since then, I have molded with burnt bone, iron dross
&amp; burned felt, thoroughly pulverized &amp; ground finely on
marble and well mixed together. I moistened them very
well with beaten glair of egg. And having covered the medal with it,
as in the others, then filled the frame with sand from the
mine, I knocked moderately. I found it to be of very good
release &amp; molded very neatly. I let it sit an entire night. The next morning, I reheated
it little by little, over the course of seven or eight
hours (for if possible, no humidity ought to
remain in the frame). I cast twice in copper
alloyed with ☾, as old
K. The substance
turned out very beautiful, shiny &amp; sonorous, &amp; without a
crust, and my sand was not corrupted at all. Since then, I
have cast with it several casts of soft lead &amp; tin
that came out better &amp; more neatly than any other that I have ever
found.

When you mold, make certain lines around your mold, in the
frame, in order to attract the substance to all sides, in this
way.









Potin of syringe &amp; other
co works runs even better than fine latten.
But I think that it is better half copper &amp;
half latten, which have been used &amp; have been in
very thin works, such as skillets &amp; other similar things. I have
seen this mixture of half and half come out well.

















To mold well, one ought to cast in a big frame several
medals together, for when there is a lot of substance &amp; the
crucible is almost full, it heats more, &amp; then, if one
medal does not come out well, the other will be good.

It is better to melt in a bellows furnace than in a
four à vent, because it gives a more vigorous heat. It
is true that latten melts well in the four à
vent, because it is easier to melt than copper, being
more brittle.

Some of the founders have this superstition,
that only three days a week are good for melting, namely
Tuesdays, Wednesdays
Thursdays, and Saturdays. The others, for them,
are unlucky.

When you mold, do not knock excessively on the medal, which is in
the sand, because it prevents it from releasing very neatly &amp;
shakes loose the mold.

Take heed also that the sand does not surpass the edges of the
frame, for it makes the molded medal higher than the cast,
&amp; in this way, metal will never enter the mold. Therefore,
always make sure that the surface of your cast object surpasses the mold in a straight line, and to do this, if it seems good to you, put a
piece of carton of whatever thickness you
please.

Founders, in order to prevent their large cast
works from becoming porous, are careful to reheat their molds very well. And
to know if they have been reheated sufficiently, they knock against it with
their finger, &amp; if they start to ring like a pot,
then they are sufficiently reheated.

To cast their cannons neatly, they mix their earth
with some fine casting sand, if they can find any.




Sand from Thoulouse

The usual bo good one is the one which is
found in a vineyard near Puy David, but the one
which is most excellent is the one is from the Touch, near
Sainct Michel &amp; toward Blagnac, in a
vineyard that is quite high up. The latter is thinner
&amp; a little fatter than the other, &amp; better for small works. It
does not want to be reheated too much.



