








For casting in latten

The latten from skillets in which one makes the mush for
little children, which is soft, is appropriate for
the cast. Some say that German tokens <-are->
contain a lot of calamine. However, as they are thin, the
calamine exhales out when melting them, as it does in
all <-meta-> remelted latten, which, through melting
again, would return to red. However, fresh calamine & on its own, put
again on melted latten, makes it run & cast neatly, because
the one that is in the remelted <-de-> latten is
half corrupted from its nature, & makes it become porous &
blusters because it is disposed to exhaling. Therefore, use
calamine alone, on its own, very recent, on the melted
latten. Take heed to cast very hot & that your mold
be red like for gold, silver, copper &
metal. If you cast with recent calamine, keep 
away from the fumes, for they are pernicious. I wanted to use
German tokens to cast medals & took thirty & xii
nails of rosette, like for chairs, which are of
soft latten. This substance, containing a lot of
calamine, like all strong yellow latten, has made great fumes,
which is what prevents latten from running and makes it
porous. Make many vents & cast very hot, that your
latten is white like water or melted silver &
similar to a very polished steel mirror. The second fusion comes
out better, for what calamine there is has been exhaled and does not make
fumes as much. If it is in a frame which does not break
& withstands <-a->, the second cast comes out neat
because it is imbued with calamine fumes, which embrace &
receive the second one. Sal ammoniac alone, put in
latten, renders it neat & shiny. Huile
tingente even more so. It does not need any sand other than the
previous en noyau & that the mold be red like for
gold. Make many vents. And if you cast yellowed latten
with the prepared tutty, you will not have any bad fumes.






This metal is very fanciful to cast because of the calamine
smoke, and one ought not to leave it <-pass-> rest even
a little bit outside the fire, like some do with silver, for it
is immediately cold when it feels the air and the
wind. It always leaves some type of tail, like glass, when
you cast it. Casters do not usually take that very yellow
latten, because of the calamine passed through the fire. But
when wanting to cast red copper, they yellow it either with
fresh calamine or with prepared tutty. Wanting to cast,
one purifies it well of charcoal with a stalk of
copper or iron, and one covers it with a
cloth soaked in pig fat mixed with
saltpeter or sal ammoniac, to keep it from
the wind & from cooling. 


