








Casting in silver and gold



Wanting to melt, always put for these two metals
a small stone of pulverized borax at the bottom of
the crucible &amp; the gold and silver on top.
This makes it so that if the crucible gives off some vapor or
sour fumes, it will not impair these two metals. For
gold in particular, this is good.



If you have several molds to cast, do not think of filling them
in one cast, for the metal would be cold. But having cast while
hot &amp; filling one, remelt &amp; cast in the other. 

When your mold starts to redden on the inside, &amp;
when the cast loses its blackness, then put your &amp; when
looking inside the cast you you do not see
plas a single point of blackness,
continue to maintain it in this heat &amp;, if need be, add in some half-lit charcoals with your pincers. However,
com put in the forge your
crucible with a little ground borax at the bottom, &amp;
the silver that you want to cast in your
forge should be on top, letting your
crucible reheat between the lit charcoals
jus without blowing until it is red, for
before, one ought not to blow. And when you do blow, push in a longish
&amp; continuous movement the bellows, giving them a little
shake when pushing &amp; another when pulling toward you. In this way,
the heat becomes stronger. Com
NeTake heed to raise sometimes your
crucible with the with hot pincers, 
becauseil if it is placed right in front of the
blast-pipe &amp; the bellow b
wind builds the wind of the bellows hits
the crucible, it will cool your silver rather than
heating it. Make sure that the lit charcoals support it from above the
blast-pipe, &amp; take care that it is at a distance of
three good fingers from the wall of the
forge. In this way, it heats better. Therefore, when your
silver starts to melt, if you recognize that it is brittle,
seeing cracked &amp; burst lumps, take the size of a
hazelnut of arsenic &amp; two times as much of
raw tartar, coarsely pulverized, for in this way, they have more
ability to heat. And occasionally throw it in the crucible on the
silver, which clarifies it. But if you have some of that crust sublimated on a metal substance, which looks like
grain of steel, as previously described, take a little
of that, leaving # the others, &amp; throw it
on your melted silver.





Some let the silver rest a little outside before casting.





Gold and silver, melted with the aforesaid things, scarcely
become porous.





For gold, one does not need das much
tin crocum as feather alum.





Small molds are reheated quickly, but big &amp; small ones
should dry beforehand in the furnace, for the humidity of the
mold, by thee fo heat of the
furnace, is attracted outside. But the fierce heat of the
charcoals chases it from the exterior through the inside.





All alloyed silver produces film, and all other
metal as well.





Silver does not want to be uncovered when melted.





# Coarsely pulverized





A lump of adulterated silver vitrifies in red because of the
arsenic &amp; orpiment.




















You will see that it will torment it &amp; heat it very well and soon
render it very liquid &amp; ready to cast and be clarified, as it should
be. When it is in this state &amp; when it is very white and polished,
shining like quicksilver, prepare yourself to cast. And to this
effect, have some lean delicate sand, in a
terrine or another vessel, that you would
like to help yourself to. Make a pit in your sand, then, with your
pincers, take your well-reddened mold &amp; place it
in this pit of sand. Cover immediately the opening of your mold
in order that no ash &amp; dust enters inside, &amp; then
enclose it with sand up to the edge of the gate &amp; the vents. This done,
uncover your mold &amp; throw on top of your well-melted
silver, the size of a pea or thereabouts, some
of this metallic grain, which will immediately spread through
all your silver &amp; make it boil &amp; turn. Cast as soon as
you have put in this substance, for it is this that is the secret to
making the silver run, since its crust heats it &amp; clarifies
it. You can cast silver finer than the alloy from the capital
and like that of the real, but you must add this
grain in.





With all of this, do not let yourself forget to put, before all things,
a little borax in the melted silver, for even though
goldsmiths do not put any in, nevertheless it is good, and I have
seen it practised well. Next, one puts in the crust of the substance at
two different times &amp; then the metallic thing. Then make sure  that
it be placed at the end of your forge.





If you want to blow the ash that is around your mold when
you hold it between the pincers, hold it with the opening at
the bottom, &amp; blow.





When silver is well melted, you can uncover it and blow with the
small bellows, not continually like with gold, but only
to cast out the charcoals in order to put in the substances that
make it run.







Whitening of cast silver



Because one commonly casts in base silver, &amp; especially the
Germans, and that such an alloy readily makes a film
or crust, which is contrary to our some
goldsmiths from France are usually quick
to whiten their works, especially rough ones, because they only
use common bullitoyre, which is tartar &amp;
common salt, nearly as much of one as the other. But I
have seen an excellent German working thus. Having in my
presence cast a little lizard with an alloy of
teston, he made a greyish noi crust.
And to clean it from it, he boiled it in the above-mentioned
bullitoyre of tartar &amp; pulverized
common salt and mixed with common water, in the
fire of his forge. Once taken out, he brushed it. And
because it was not as clean of this crust as he fancied, he burned some
tartar in some paper until it was
black &amp; no longer smoked. Then, he wetted the aforesaid tartar
d with the water of bullitoyre,
composed of salt &amp; tartar, &amp; covered all his
lizard with it. Then, he put it between the live of
charcoals of his forge &amp; blew a little. When the
lizard was red, he took it out, let it cool, then reheated it
in the bullitoyre. Next, he brushed it in
clear water. 



+

Note that the bullitoyre for silver is never good
in a crucible because the water, taking the form of the
f tartar, evaporates. But the vessel
for boiling, being of copper, is excellent for the whitening of
silver &amp; for the mixture which colors gold.





He took heed not to let his water of tartar boil so much that it
would have poured out on top, because then its strength goes away. Therefore, when this first fury of boiling comes, remove it from the fire &amp; put it
back. He held as a secret this burned tartar put on top for
base silver.



