 n  again very well, then add in iii ℥ of minium, &amp; pestle well again all together, &amp; put it in the crucible, which you will cover with an appropriate tile, a bit thick, in order that heat reverberates better there. Then, set it on the grate of your furnace, having put under a few thick rounded squares. Next, fill your furnace to the opening with charcoal, so that it will be heaped, and let it kindle, and always maintain the heat evenly without letting the charcoal decrease. And for this effect, always make it so that the furnace is heaped &amp; full of charcoal, and maintain it thus for one day. The first experience that I made of it, it only returned a yellow mass, as is vitrified minium alone, &amp; some grains of gold in a mass at the bottom. Try cemented gold and accompanied with antimony.  If you need greater heat, plie put, on the edge of the opening of the glowing furnace, tiles, one against the other, for making the heat reverberate.     Topaz The same dose is observed for all gemstones, namely one weight of calcined pebbles on three of minium, pestling all separately in a copper mortar for emerald &amp; in an iron mortar for making topaz or amber color, with pestles identical to the mortars. The emerald &amp; the topaz are of the same heat, &amp; for an hour &amp; a half on the fire, for they could burn. The ruby en wants more time &amp; more fire &amp; colored with gold leaf. I believe that pumice stone or firestone for the ruby would be better. See the enamels. Try also mixing, in place of pebbles, pieces of colored glass or enamels. If the mass is not colored enough, pestle it more in the iron mortar.  Slightly burnt tartar mixed among this makes beautiful yellow, but one hardly needs any. The arene also makes it more yellow.   Salt for melting Mix saltpeter &amp; common salt, and melt them together, &amp; cast on melted copper or ch in a bath, &amp; it purifies &amp; makes it run marvellously. First, one ought to decrepitate the common salt, that is to say holding it over a good fire until it no longer crackles or, to melt it better, in a four à vent. And cast it neatly on marble, then pestle it &amp; grind it very finely, then put it in a crucible on as much saltpeter &amp; let it boil, &amp; mix them together until  It cleans &amp; purifies metal well.   

 n  again very well, then add in iii ℥ of minium, &amp; pestle well again all together, &amp; put it in the crucible, which you will cover with an appropriate tile, a bit thick, in order that heat reverberates better there. Then, set it on the grate of your furnace, having put under a few thick rounded squares. Next, fill your furnace to the opening with charcoal, so that it will be heaped, and let it kindle, and always maintain the heat evenly without letting the charcoal decrease. And for this effect, always make it so that the furnace is heaped &amp; full of charcoal, and maintain it thus for one day. The first experience that I made of it, it only returned a yellow mass, as is vitrified minium alone, &amp; some grains of gold in a mass at the bottom. Try cemented gold and accompanied with antimony.  If you need greater heat, plie put, on the edge of the opening of the glowing furnace, tiles, one against the other, for making the heat reverberate.     Topaz The same dose is observed for all gemstones, namely one weight of calcined pebbles on three of minium, pestling all separately in a copper mortar for emerald &amp; in an iron mortar for making topaz or amber color, with pestles identical to the mortars. The emerald &amp; the topaz are of the same heat, &amp; for an hour &amp; a half on the fire, for they could burn. The ruby en wants more time &amp; more fire &amp; colored with gold leaf. I believe that pumice stone or firestone for the ruby would be better. See the enamels. Try also mixing, in place of pebbles, pieces of colored glass or enamels. If the mass is not colored enough, pestle it more in the iron mortar.  Slightly burnt tartar mixed among this makes beautiful yellow, but one hardly needs any. The arene also makes it more yellow.   Salt for melting Mix saltpeter &amp; common salt, and melt them together, &amp; cast on melted copper or ch in a bath, &amp; it purifies &amp; makes it run marvellously. First, one ought to decrepitate the common salt, that is to say holding it over a good fire until it no longer crackles or, to melt it better, in a four à vent. And cast it neatly on marble, then pestle it &amp; grind it very finely, then put it in a crucible on as much saltpeter &amp; let it boil, &amp; mix them together until  It cleans &amp; purifies metal well.     the crucible will be red. Next, cast it on marble, and you will have a substance white, hard &amp; even, like alabaster, with which you will be able to cast medals which will resemble marble, but keep them out of the humidity.   Jacinth Is made like ruby, with gold, but one does not need such a great fire. The ruby wants fire for a whole day, and if it does not have enough fire, it will only have red veins.  Always heat up your crucibles.   One holds that rubified antimony makes jacinth.    Topaz I melted one part of pumice stone, calcined &amp; pulverized, &amp; tr with three parts of minium, and the stone pulverized in a steel ver f mortar. It returned me a very beautiful yellow without any grains, more yellow than any others. It is true that it was well saturated with color. I believe it would be better to le pulverize the pumice in a glass mortar, because it &amp; the minium make enough yellow by themselves. It returned to me a mass, the top a beautiful yellow, as was said, the bottom like firestone, without transparency. With which, by mixing other   Varnish The Germans make minium boil well in linseed oil, &amp; to give it the body of varnish, they mix in thoroughly pulverized yellow amber.   Gum ammoniac One puts it in small pieces into a little good vinegar, &amp; one heats, then one passes it through a cloth strainer. All medicinal gums dissolve in vinegar.   