For molding sulfur

Sulfur is made beautiful mixed with soot black or with
pulverized sanguine, which renders it harder and stronger. Having
let it melt well until it becomes liquid, like oil, mix it with
verdigris, and you m will very neatly cast in
plaster a lizard or something else.





One ought not to cast unless it is well cooled &amp; unless it
has lost all its pustules &amp; bubbles, and has settled down
well &amp; become smooth like  water. The
soot black gives it a fine sheen &amp; makes it neater. The most
beautiful yellow sulfur must be used, for the greyish &amp;
lively one is not good. Do not cast in wind &amp;
in cold, for it would become porous.







Chimolée

The terre chimolée, otherwise known as
fuller’s earth, with which they dress the
cloth, is excellent for molding hollow or in relief; &amp; if you
want to reheat it, it must first be warm, &amp; reheat it on a gentle
fire at a distance &amp; little by little, otherwise it would crack.
Put the figure to reheat in a pot in an oven or in a
covered oven. It is very soft, neat &amp; beautiful. You
can make a hollow form of animals from chimolée &amp; cast
lead in it.





The work needs to be dried for 4 or 5 days before you reheat
it. When you mold &amp; make a hollow form from chimolée, do
not press suddenly, but gently, for it would crack.







Paper

The whitest &amp; finest is the best. And when the hollow form is quite
clean, as of sulfur or cooked chimolée, it is made
very neatly. You can give it one or two layers of white with a
border of gold to imitate alabaster. And after you have
applied the white, you can burnish it with the tooth.
But in order for it to be burnished, one needs to temper the lead
white with glair of egg &amp; peelings from the fig
tree. Or better, varnish your work with white varnish.
Also, when you are molding with paper, as it starts to dry,
burnish from the back with the tooth.







Plaster

That from the mountains is greyer, and the the
one from the region of Albi is whiter. It must be cooked with a
closed fire, such as a reverberatory furnace or barbers'
ovens. And the most freshly cooked is the best to put to use.
One needs to finely grind it on marble. After having prepared your
hollow form from sulfur or something else, &amp; having oiled it
&amp; enclosed it in a circle, temper not too
thickly your plaster with water, &amp; separate it well
with your finger, and if it makes pustules, throw on top
more powder of the said plaster &amp;  grind it
with the finger until +





+ it makes no more pustules. Then cast &amp; sprinkle
once again with plaster powder &amp; let it take well, then
scrape the powder.