  For walls of earth and rustic construction Swallows have taught us this craft, making their nests out of mud mixed with wisps &amp; stalks of hay or straw to make it bond. Therefore, in places where stone &amp; brick are lacking, one can use earth to make partitions &amp; walls. And for this, light earth, which does not form clumps when plowed, but which is as if intermixed with arene, holds first rank, because it can be beaten &amp; tamped down better. It is true that one needs to moisten it &amp; la cut it into the shape of sods with a ditch-spade, and thus place &amp; arrange it. This one lasts longer and there is not as much construction work, and ne dryness does not make it crack &amp; split. But, because such kinds of earth are not found everywhere, those who are on good &amp; fertile land, after marking out with a measuring line the width &amp; length of their foundations, drive into the ground in along the edges, on this side &amp; that, long chpoles &amp; or chevron beams to support boards between which they throw the earth, making each layer one foot thick or thereabouts, intermixing it as if S.S.S with branches of heather or similar things, then with beaters of three different forms they tamp it &amp; beat it. One is called the mallet, which has a triangular form like A, and with this, one first tamps the earth. Next one uses one which is made of blocks of wood pointed at the tip &amp; helved to a large stick, &amp; this one is for pressing the earth well at the extremities and edges of the wall, which adhere to the boards, &amp; is called. The other one is called the bat, which is for flattening &amp; beating the earth for the last time, as shown in C. Then one makes another layer of earth &amp; heather and beats it as was said, &amp; continues thus until the wall is complete, which one covers with heather &amp; then with earth. Some m intermix rows of bricks in the said wall. They also make the wall tapering, giving a width to the foundations according to how high one wants to raise the wall. Which, when old, whitens, &amp; thereby shows that it has saltpeter in it. That is why, when they fall down, gunpowder makers profit from them.  A   