For making the ashes of flowers and plants leave
molds

Some meslen put quicksilver inside it. But, if it is
a small work or fine &amp; delicate foliage that only has
p a slender exit, they make two errors: the first, that
quicksilver by its heaviness can break f some delicate
feature inside when shaken, the other, that some grains will always
linger inside that will make metals sour &amp; hinder the
perfection of the cast. It is true that if it is to empty the
mold of some animal which is thickish &amp; which has big conduits
&amp; passages by which the quicksilver can easily exit, like a
bird or a snake, one can indeed put in it some
quicksilver pou to break by shaking the
calcined bones of the animal, because the said ☿ will
come out &amp; not remain.



The asparagus stalk is so hard that most often it remains as
charcoal. Because of this, dry it out beforehand, or wet it with
oil of sulfur &amp; turpentine, or cast separately the little
branches &amp; solder them onto a thick stalk drawn through the
wire drawing plate.



If the burnt thing has left some filth or ash, let it cool
a little, &amp; with an iron wire wrapped in
cotton that can bend according to the cavities that you have
to search out, clean &amp; blow out this defect, or with a soft
brush or a cut paintbrush.





Daisies

They can be cast well in gold. But if you want to
enamel them, you have to make them by hand &amp; enamel
them &amp; then attach them. Otherwise, the leaves would be so pressed
together that the enamel would muddle together there. 





Sand that was used

Do not cast it. But because it is mixed with feather alum,
you can use it in the mixture of other sands, &amp; it can serve in
place of brick.





Molding à noyau figures of wax or medals of
lead

Rub them with oil with a paintbrush, but let
it be so lightly that your medal is almost rubbed dry &amp; that it
hardly appears to have been anointed. Next, destr rub
it with eau-de-vie and heat the water with which you will
temper your aforesaid sand, with plaster, brick &amp;
alum, in order that being chau as if lukewarm
when you cast it, the oil will not refuse it, as it does with
cold water, &amp; do not forget when moistening your sand to
always mix in it a little sal ammoniac.



Medals mold in such a way very neatly.





Blood of snakes

If you need to cut some snake inside the mold to
burn it, cut it far from the entrance of the
mold lest blood remains, for it would
make a crust that afterward would not be taken away by the same
quicksilver &amp; would remove the impressions from your
mold.