










and to prevent it from breaking, mix in little oil &
melt them together & fill the cracks & make them even and paint
on them. And the oil mixed with wax will
<-q-> better receive color, which is also
tempered with oil.





First whitening of a panel

One layers two or three times with chalk tempered with
distemper glue on the panel, not with a
paintbrush but with a brush in such a
way as if you wanted to pounce, & leave to dry. And reiterate up to
two or three times, then even out the last ground well with a
knife, then give a coat of glue on top, upon
which you will next be able to make your imprimatura and then paint. But
make sure that your first white is not too thick for it would break
easily. Flemish painters have such panels
made by the dozen.





Neat work

When you are working, make sure not to stir up dust, & when you
leave your work, cover it in order that the said dust will not fall upon it.
Also layer your colors as thinly as you can, for if they are thick you
will be not be able to soften them thoroughly.







Also do not layer color on color if they are not similar, such as white
on black, but rather flesh color on flesh color, & thus with the
others. And leave blank the space for shadow or a different color.
<-Ains-> In this way, layering each manner of color
on the imprimatura itself, they will not die & you will work
neatly.





    Oil

Walnut oil extracted like peeled
almonds is very white. The one of palmachristi. And when the oil has a little body, the
colors soften in it. For if the oil is too clear, the colors run &
do not have bond, even those that hardly have any body. Fatty
oil that is not easily imbibed is appropriate for varnish.
The oil is desiccative enough when it dries out as quickly as
common varnish. Oils do not dry as quickly in cold
countries as in hot countries. Oil exposed to the sun
is clarified well. But it fattens, if you put in ceruse or
lead filings or lead white or calcined pulverized
<-p-> glass. To avoid this, put the vial in
clear water.

Colors in oil, once dry, sometimes do not easily receive the
second colors; to prevent this, breathe on them & the color will
take there.


