








To hold the cores, some use wire of the same
metal that they cast because it reduces with &amp;
melts with its counterpart, but because when melting or folding, the
core changes, some find it better to r use
iron wire, sharpened at the ends, because it holds
firmer &amp; having delicate ends, it appears as no more than a point of
a needle. And one can apply gold or silver before using
it for a work. If it makes a hole, one covers it with a small
chisel.

Eau-de-vie prevents the sand from becoming porous &amp; does
not make little holes on the edges of the mold if the thing to
mold is well dampened with it. The holes &amp; blisters &amp; bubbles
are not made on the side of the mold, which is thick, but at
the edges, which are thinner.

One casts with common silver, with which goldsmiths
commonly work, which alloys indifferently Et que.
And when one were to cast with solder, it would run even
better.

Spat is a whitish stone which can
be found in Germany, &amp; mainly in Augsburg, which
one uses for the most excellent sand that can be found for lead,
tin, copper, silver &amp; gold. And the more
it is used, the better it is. It is appropriate for casting flat things
in a frame. For round things, it is not as fitting nor does
it hold in the fire as well as the aforesaid one made with
plaster.

The shreds of cui thick, greasy leather
are pgood to cast in the molten
copper and latten, for it cleans it &amp; removes from it all its
filth. 





Spalt

Spalt is white like cooked plaster and can be found in
mounds and stones formed in long scales &amp; long veins. It is
very soft, such that with a fingernail one can scrape
it, &amp; makes a powder like our chalk from Champagne.
And because everything which comes from the earth is mixed
with some other substance, to purify it, one grinds it, coming from the
quarry, quite coarsely, then one mixes it with sal
ammoniac water. By putting in a piece the size of a
walnut in a large bottle of water, and


















thus one mixes it &amp; reduces it into
psmall stones, purging it of its
impurities. Then, one puts it to cook neatly in a
pot earthen vessel in
the fornaise of those who make pots, and one
leaves it there until the pots are cooked. Next, one mixes it
again with sal ammoniac water &amp; one grinds it very well,
and one empties the muddy &amp; clean water into a separate
vessel. Again, one puts the same water on top &amp;
one grinds, &amp; again one puts the muddy water with the other.
And one does thus, until it has passed everything. In this way, one
purges &amp; cleanses it, &amp; one renders it very fine &amp;
handleable. Having taken away the water by tilting it or with a
sponge, one takes the residue and one dries it. Then,
moistening it with the aforesaid water, like one does with
the other water sand, one uses it in a
frame, where, if it retracts, it is a sign that it
has not reheated enough &amp; that one needs to reheat it further. This
one is appropriate for molding all metals, and especially
gold &amp; silver, and the more it is used, the better it
is. One needs to set aside the one in which you cast lead or
tin, for it would sour the gold you would cast in it.

Feather alum should be reheated in a
cauldron crucible covered
with a tile in a strong flame
fire of charcoals, in order that the impurity which could be there
burns with the feather alum, which does not burn. This is done either in the
goldsmith’s forge, surrounded with
bricks, or in a fourneau à vent with
fusion fire, so that the sand remains long enough 
crucible remains red for a
quarter of an hour. This is done more to cleanse it
than for anything else. It becomes reddish on the surface &amp; on the
inside it remains white &amp; better dried out. #



#
After your feather alum is cooled,
pestle it in a mortar, then grind it on marble, and it will be rendered into very fine wooly
filaments which give bond to the sand without getting burned as
other things do, which is a beautiful invention. Pestle it in the
mortar by dragging the pestle, for the flying dust
could enter your throat or land on your face, which
will give you reason to scratch yourself well. Put it in the mortar a little
at a time to avoid the flying dust. It is
better to grind it thus, in the mortar, dragging the
pestle, than on marble,
for where c it spreads, &amp; in
the mortar, it collects on all sides. Render it very fine &amp;
soft to the touch.

Clay, to make circles around molds, should
be very fatty &amp; handleable, and serves only to make the surrounding of
the molds. Thus, one ought only to choose the quite fatty kind, and beat
very well, &amp; moisten it moderately with some water, &amp; keep
it in a pit or in a terrine, and make numerous
holes with a stick in it, which fill with water, in
order to keep it always fresh &amp; soft, so that it is always ready to use
when you need it.



