Impromptu mask

Mold some paper &amp; put it on the face of somebody who is
making an ugly grimace. Let it dry &amp; take your pattern to paint from
it.






#&amp; swellings. It
is necessary that it not be too wet for the aforesaid reasons. Reheat
little by little. And if, after molding it, you leave it to
dry slowly, in some dry place &amp; not over a big fire, it
would be better, for when one exposes it all at once to intense heat, it
warps. I believe that reheating it at the mouth of the oven,
after the bread has been taken out, would be very proper. One
ought not to complain about the difficulty of preparing it, for it
withstands as many castings as you wish, because it renders itself as
hard as marble, &amp; you can polish it, &amp; the mold
cannot be spoiled. Once used, pestle &amp; sieve it again, yet
without being scrupulous to render it so fine,
I for having been passed only through a common
sieve, it has more force than and releases better, than
when it is so fine.





Eau magistra

Dissolve rock salt or salt finely
pulverized sandiver &amp; put on marble in a
cellar, &amp; it will dry out by reheating the mold,
&amp; will give it a bond to withstand several castings. Try to
moisten it with tartar oil.




Flour

Ground during Advent, keeps for the whole
year.




Sand from a mine in Thoulouse

The sand from Thoulouse, which is taken, from the
depths of the earth, from the small hill of Puy
David, is excellent in itself, but to make it withstand
several castings, I mix it with pulverized sandiver &amp;
moistened, which hardens it, &amp; takes body &amp; bond with it, &amp;
makes it withstand more than five as many castings as you
wish. Try to moisten the pestled glass and other
e sands with the waters of the aforesaid
salts. It wants to be, like all natural sand, well reheated
before putting it to use. One pulverizes it, because it is in lumps,
then one reheats it in a copper kettle or similar thing,
untill it no longer smokes



It is necessary to reheat it before using it. It is rendered better for
casting because it is reheated, but when it has been used a lot, one
ought to refresh it with new sand.