  Gemstones Take white pebbles that are found by the rivers &amp; among the sand bank &amp; paths, which are somewhat transparent, &amp; if they are perfectly transparent it will be better. If not, use the best &amp; whitest that you can. Calcine them three or 4 times in your four à vent, &amp; extinguish them in water or vinegar. Next, take a ℥ of them and pestle them in a totally pure copper mortar &amp; with a pestle of pure copper, and grind them until they become very fine &amp; soft powder, and this is a sign that they have taken the substance of copper, enough for giving them greenness. At that time, on your ℥ of pebbles, put in three ℥ of good minium, not adulterated by brick &amp; anything else, and grind everything together again very well in a bronze mortar. And on all of this, put in a gros pour ℥ of sel de verre; &amp; some &amp; the common people put in e sandiver that they find at the glassmakers' or apothecaries'. But alkali salt, as you know, is better. In this way, the common people make emeralds &amp; cast in sand. If you do not have a bronze mortar, grind with a mort in a kettle of pure copper.   One needs to reheat crucibles before putting in materials, and put them in the fornaise or four à vent before making &amp; increasing the fire.     They are made in an hour &amp; a half.   A gros of salt on the four ℥ of pebbles &amp; minium. When one says, for ℥, this is to be understood: on one ℥ of the body, &amp; not of the salts &amp; the minium.   Emerald   For ruby take gold leaf Raise your furnace by two tiles all around, because one needs more heat for making rubies than for emeralds. And take one ℥ of white calcined pebbles and put it in a mortar of glass, &amp; having ground it coarsely with the pestle of the same, mix in grain the weight of a grain of gold leaf of what the painters gild, &amp; grind  Some say that, mixing the gold with the pebbles and the saltpeter, it makes the color of a peach tree.  Others say that it is necessary that the gold be cemented several times, then beaten into leaf.   

  Gemstones Take white pebbles that are found by the rivers &amp; among the sand bank &amp; paths, which are somewhat transparent, &amp; if they are perfectly transparent it will be better. If not, use the best &amp; whitest that you can. Calcine them three or 4 times in your four à vent, &amp; extinguish them in water or vinegar. Next, take a ℥ of them and pestle them in a totally pure copper mortar &amp; with a pestle of pure copper, and grind them until they become very fine &amp; soft powder, and this is a sign that they have taken the substance of copper, enough for giving them greenness. At that time, on your ℥ of pebbles, put in three ℥ of good minium, not adulterated by brick &amp; anything else, and grind everything together again very well in a bronze mortar. And on all of this, put in a gros pour ℥ of sel de verre; &amp; some &amp; the common people put in e sandiver that they find at the glassmakers' or apothecaries'. But alkali salt, as you know, is better. In this way, the common people make emeralds &amp; cast in sand. If you do not have a bronze mortar, grind with a mort in a kettle of pure copper.   One needs to reheat crucibles before putting in materials, and put them in the fornaise or four à vent before making &amp; increasing the fire.     They are made in an hour &amp; a half.   A gros of salt on the four ℥ of pebbles &amp; minium. When one says, for ℥, this is to be understood: on one ℥ of the body, &amp; not of the salts &amp; the minium.   Emerald   For ruby take gold leaf Raise your furnace by two tiles all around, because one needs more heat for making rubies than for emeralds. And take one ℥ of white calcined pebbles and put it in a mortar of glass, &amp; having ground it coarsely with the pestle of the same, mix in grain the weight of a grain of gold leaf of what the painters gild, &amp; grind  Some say that, mixing the gold with the pebbles and the saltpeter, it makes the color of a peach tree.  Others say that it is necessary that the gold be cemented several times, then beaten into leaf.    n  again very well, then add in iii ℥ of minium, &amp; pestle well again all together, &amp; put it in the crucible, which you will cover with an appropriate tile, a bit thick, in order that heat reverberates better there. Then, set it on the grate of your furnace, having put under a few thick rounded squares. Next, fill your furnace to the opening with charcoal, so that it will be heaped, and let it kindle, and always maintain the heat evenly without letting the charcoal decrease. And for this effect, always make it so that the furnace is heaped &amp; full of charcoal, and maintain it thus for one day. The first experience that I made of it, it only returned a yellow mass, as is vitrified minium alone, &amp; some grains of gold in a mass at the bottom. Try cemented gold and accompanied with antimony.  If you need greater heat, plie put, on the edge of the opening of the glowing furnace, tiles, one against the other, for making the heat reverberate.     Topaz The same dose is observed for all gemstones, namely one weight of calcined pebbles on three of minium, pestling all separately in a copper mortar for emerald &amp; in an iron mortar for making topaz or amber color, with pestles identical to the mortars. The emerald &amp; the topaz are of the same heat, &amp; for an hour &amp; a half on the fire, for they could burn. The ruby en wants more time &amp; more fire &amp; colored with gold leaf. I believe that pumice stone or firestone for the ruby would be better. See the enamels. Try also mixing, in place of pebbles, pieces of colored glass or enamels. If the mass is not colored enough, pestle it more in the iron mortar.  Slightly burnt tartar mixed among this makes beautiful yellow, but one hardly needs any. The arene also makes it more yellow.   Salt for melting Mix saltpeter &amp; common salt, and melt them together, &amp; cast on melted copper or ch in a bath, &amp; it purifies &amp; makes it run marvellously. First, one ought to decrepitate the common salt, that is to say holding it over a good fire until it no longer crackles or, to melt it better, in a four à vent. And cast it neatly on marble, then pestle it &amp; grind it very finely, then put it in a crucible on as much saltpeter &amp; let it boil, &amp; mix them together until  It cleans &amp; purifies metal well.   