








Gardener



For sowing melons well, it needs to be at the end of a
moon cycle, for otherwise they would bud too many leaves &
not bear enough fruit. Make small <-e-> holes, two
fingers by two fingers, with a stake
& put in each two or three seeds. Next, take very fine
earth & fill the holes lightly with it. Next, spread over
all the thickness of a thumb of havets, that
is to say wheat <-fl-> chaff, in order that the
coming rain does not beat the earth & prevent their birth.
Havets attract field mice who eat the seeds. And
for avoiding this, one must moisten them with a <-s->
decoction of wormwood.









Glassworker



Some do not apply gris d’escaille to the glass
for painting on glass, but trace on the clean
glass with noir à huile. But it is very necessary that the
wood be rid of grease, for if it has
grease, however little, the color will not take on it at all. And likewise, if the
glassworker who is working has a stench from his
nose or his mouth, <-the-> & he
breathes on the glass, the color will not take on it.
Those who discovered the invention of working in small works of soft
enamels use only esmail d’azur, which is blue,
& esmail colombin, which is the color of purple,
which they soften with rocaille or leaded glass.
As for the yellow, they make it from silver, the red from
sanguine, as is said elsewhere, the black & gray &
shadows with noir d’escaille, either strong or weak,
the flesh color with clear sanguine. The green is made first
from yellow, then on top they coat esmail d’azur, either
strong or weak, according to whether they want to make it bright or
dark.









Yellow Amber



It is cut with a file, then one passes a certain pulverized
salt over it, which an Englishman called
desramonet. But I suppose that this was pulverized
pumice stone, for it had the harshness of arène. And with a
taut cord, he polished his amber, then passed
tripoli from Bretagne on it with the
finger, others with a piece of leather
or a cane. Amber loses its color if an unhealthy person
wears it, & becomes whitish. But to restore it, it needs to be
soaked for one night in urine, then boiled a
little in it.




