








For making it seem <-that-> to someone that he has a piece
of silver on his forehead

Take a token or piece of silver and wet it
and make it hold against your forehead. Then say to the
bystander that if you put it thus on his forehead,
he will not be able to make it fall without lifting his hands
to it, no matter how he shakes his head. And making it seem as
if you are placing it on his forehead, retain it in your
hand & wet your thumb with your
saliva then press it quite strongly on his
forehead. And thinking he has the piece on his
forehead due to the coolness of the
saliva, he will shake his ears & will get
nowhere.







For making blood or wine issue from
someone’s forehead or from a wall




Take a funnel or funnel of fer blanc which is double-walled in the body <-d->
but not in the spout. Make a small hole at the top edge &
<-au-> another, slightly bigger, on the inner wall that
will be a little above the spout, just as you can see in the adjacent
example. Then when you want to use it, put in wine
or liquid rosette of Brazilwood or black cherry
juice, and blocking the hole of the spout <-the-> with your
little finger, make sure that the funnel is well
filled in order that the wine can enter <-there-> between the
double walls through the hole at the side, & if it does not enter
well, making it seem as if you are tasting the wine,
suck & draw in a little air, drinking where the little hole
is. Next, make one of the close bystanders drink the rest of
the wine or cast it aside or let it flow through the tip, but
before, you must have pressed your thumb well over the hole on
the top edge, because in this way, by the compression of air, the
wine will be retained between the double walls. Then with a
bodkin rounded at the tip & that goes into its handle, you
make it seem as if you pierce the forehead of someone who holds
a glass in his hand, and while you pierce, you
cover what you are doing with the funnel that you hold
close to #





#

his forehead. Then removing your thumb from over the
hole on the top edge, the air, being free, will make the
wine issue from between the double walls through the hole marked
B, & fall through the tip marked C into the glass.
But you must make the fellow bend his head enough in
order to do it well.


