Perspectives

Perspectives in oil take a long time because of
several lines that need to be done with a ruler, and for this
reason one usually does them in distemper. One takes the points
at one’s discretion. The main thing in this lies in having the knowledge
of the point. One commonly makes two or three of them, sometimes
five.







Ocher

It is put for faces, hair, skulls, and rocks.







Distant people and animals

One first does them roughly in gray or in purple, which is made of
azure
ash &amp; lake. Once dry, one heightens &amp; finishes with flesh color &amp; other
colors &amp; with white. And it
looks better &amp; is sooner
done than with white &amp; with
black.
Armies
are painted
thus.







Drawing

After you have applied imprimatura to your panel &amp; scraped with a knife
to render it quite even, you will start drawing with the longest piece
of charcoal you can find, for with a short one you would
not see your line so well &amp; would do it roughly. Let the tip of
the charcoal be thin, &amp; in order not to render it
dull &amp; blunt soon, drag the tip flat, thus you will constantly
sharpen it. Also, hold your charcoal as far at the end
as you can, &amp; do it &amp; accustom yourself
af to make a light line. For if you accustom yourself
to drawing delicately with charcoal, you will do
likewise with colors. And he who is rough
with charcoal is never exquisit with colors. And by a
line of charcoal, masters pass judgment on their
apprentices. First make the outline of your drawing, that is
the contour, lightly &amp; without any too careful work, but boldly. In
so doing, you will teach yourself to be an artist, and if you
need to undo anything, you will not waste as much time as if you had
elaborated it. Next, re-work all the distinctive lines, &amp; do not keep
too close to your panel, but occasionally step away from it to better
judge the proportions. Once the first drawing seems good to you, retrace
all the lines with the paintbrush in rose color or
another color in gum or distemper. Thus you will work more
confidently with colors, and with less effort.