






Casting of lead and tin


When it is often melted, it becomes brittle &amp;
fl frangible because it is cast very hot &amp;
renders it half calcined. Therefore, use new.

The alloy that I have put in use for lizards &amp;
snakes is two ℥ of fine tin for one lb
of new &amp; unadulterated lead. The mold is made of the
aforesaid sand, common to all metals; when it is reheated let it
cool until you can hold your finger without harm
in the hole of the gate. As for lead, one melts it in a
crucible ju in the fire, with
bellows, until the crucible &amp; the lead are
red. When it is in this state, purge it of charcoal, either
with a scraper made for this purpose or with the wind of the
little bellows. l This done, let it rest
thus red, &amp; reheat a little on its own, then throw in, if you want,
a little rosin to burn the filth. However some find it
better not to put any in, because it leaves filth. But, when they
are ready to cast, they ought not to forget to throw inside, as well,
as much as a bean of looking-glass tin for each
lb of lead, and that it e should be
red like melted metal when it enters in the mold. And if
the mold is big, it is better to put it in a press, in
order that it joins well &amp; that the lead does not spread outside the mold. However, should this happen &amp; that
for the first or second or third time your mold has not filled,
cast boldly, for, provided that your metal is red, it will set
again, &amp; join with the other, and come out very neat, like the
principal. The same can be said for fine tin for thin things.
And the alloy of fine tin is one ℥ of new lead
for one lb of this. Large molds should be placed in
very tight presses, between two sheets of
copper pu, &amp; then bury them in the sand,
which is better than ash, because il is by its weight it seals
better. Otherwise, these large molds are subject to
opening slightly by the weight of the metal. Some make square
pots



When the medal is thick, one is not compelled to cast as hot as when it
is thin.



+

Note that if you want to cast them in cuttlefish
bone, they ought not to be very hot because they will burn the
cuttlefish bone. Test for this effect with
paper. If it turns the paper red, it is
enough, it is good to cast, but if it blackens the
paper, it is too hot.



If you want to cast a written paper, make your alloy with
plom half lead &amp; half
tin, &amp; as soon as it is melted, cast between two
cartons in a very flat &amp;
level place, &amp; with a point of gold or hard
wood, engrave on the left the writing that you want. And having
poured lead on a carton, press on top
with the other adapted carton.


















 either of earth or plates of copper, or iron,
or wood covered with fer blanc, to bury more easily these
aforementioned molds between the sheets of
copper &amp; the stirrup or screw of
iron.





Cast of wax to represent an animal that one has not
got

Take some white wax, which is more appropriate for this work
than anything else because it is firmer &amp; does not leave as much
filth, as much as you need to mold the animal that you propose,
&amp; no more, and half as much charcoal, pestled &amp;
finely passed through a linen or a sleeve.
The charcoal gives color and body to the wax,
which would otherwise be transparent &amp; the features would not be
seen as well. Therefore, put your wax to melt in the charcoal fire. And when it will be well melted &amp; liquid, take, for a
bowl with handles full of melted wax, as much
sulfur la as a large
walnut. Pulverize it, melt it over a slow fire, &amp; when
it is melted, do not leave it on the fire, because it will become
too hard, but take it away &amp; agitate it always with a
little stick, &amp; let it finish its bubbling, &amp; when it is as
liquid as water, throw it in the wax that you have removed
from the fire. And mix &amp; always stir the one &amp; the other, in
order that they mix well. Next, mix in, always stirring &amp; in several
goes, the aforesaid pulverized charcoal in several
goes. And as it will be well incorporated, take heed if
your wax has passed its high heat, which you will recognize
when it no longer smokes, when it makes large tracts
se re pulling at the
edges, &amp; motionless &amp; close to one to the other.
For, if you were to cast too hot, you could not separate your wax
from the mold, &amp; it would set in the cast. When it is in
this good state, stir it with a little stick, in order that
the pulverized charcoal is everywhere &amp; not placed
at the bottom. And in this way, cast in your mold, little by
little, &amp; not in one go, because the wax, by its
unctuousness, does not flow





This black sulfured wax is for modeling round figures that are
not for releasing and that one needs to burn in the mold à noyau 
before opening it, po like those
which have arms &amp; legs out front or entwined. And then this
wax, by means of sulfur, melts with very little heat and
exits without leaving any filth. If, by chance, the pestled
charcoal remains there as ash, by opening the mold
&amp; blowing inside, it stays neat.



To make snakes with wax, or another thing to fix on a
candle, one needs to cast with modeling wax of all
colors.





