which is different from that of the printers, one needs
to boil walnut oil or, even better, linseed
oil for a long time. &amp; having boiled for a long
time, you will put in garlic &amp; bread
crusts to rid it of grease &amp; leave again to boil thoroughly,
then finally you put in one part of lampblack that you
have previously ground on marble with oil.
And finally you will mix everything as long as &amp; until
you see that the plate prints well. Which And when
you have spread the ink on it, wipe the plates well with
the surface of a piece of white paper. &amp; do this
until the paper looks clean and then print. If you were
to wipe the plates with a linen cloth, it would
remove the ink. Linseed oil thickens while
boiling &amp; becomes like a varnish &amp; is in danger of
catching fire. Therefore, when you boil it, make sure it is in an
open space or in a place where the flame cannot cause
damage. Some burn tartar until it is black &amp; grind it
with non-boiled linseed oil, or walnut
oil which others find to be better. This black is beautiful,
but the one of lamp smoke is blacker. When you want to print
fr, take with your fingertip of
the said black moderately thick, the whole plate having
first been cleaned in lye as said, then, rub it with the surface
of a piece of white paper until the
paper remains white &amp; do not touch it with the
bare hand pourceq but with a piece
of paper applied on top. &amp; having cleaned the
plate perfectly, mi rub again with a
piece of paper, fold the edges &amp; sides. Next, take a
small even table &amp; on this a piece of
felt, then a few sheets of paper &amp;
finally the one you want to print on, which should be moistened between
two wet napkins. And on this sheet put your
plate then another piece of paper, &amp;
finally another felt. Then pass between the
rollers. And you can print a dozen pieces consecutively by
always charging the plate with ink &amp; cleaning it as you
have done. But if you desist from printing, the rest of the ink will dry
in the grooves of the plate. Thus you will have to boil it
in lye or urine, as already said, to clean it. The
rollers must not be too loose.