








Molding fruits and animals in sugar

Sugar is fatty when runny and brittle & breakable
when dry, and with it, one casts well round things & large
muscles, but awkwardly things fine & delicate. However, try
well-clarified sugar. One needs to soak for one night
or one day the plaster mold before
casting the sugar, in order that it is very full of water
& does not imbibe the syrup. One needs also for it to be of
easy release, for the sugar is sour & brittle. Finally, do
not consider casting anything in sugar that does not release well
and that cannot be neatly molded in two halves, to open it when you will
need to. If you want to mold a bunch of grapes, one needs to
take it, like any other fruit, in its true vigor, for if it is withered,
it will <-not-> come out that way. Take heed, therefore,
to make your molds in the natural season of
<-that-> all things. The grapes that are
usually wanted cast in sugar can be made artificially or with
wax or earth, or even with some grapes attached
with some melted wax on some slab & other full
thing, so that they are very close together and release well, & only
make up one half. Or, if you have some of those grapes called
chauchés or sauvignons, which have the grapes
very close together, encase half of them <-on-> in the
clay slab and cast on the other half. And if some 
grape is not released, pluck it out. Note that neither in
sugar, nor in metal, can a bunch which has light &
separated grapes be cast properly, because the end of the bunch
is so delicate, especially if the grapes are kept, that it could not
sustain the large grapes. Thus, you will need to cast
hollow, which you could not do if the bunch does not have the
grapes close together & <-molds-> without having them
scattered & spread apart.





To cast pears & apples in sugar, one ought
not to make any gates, but rather, fill one half of the mold and
then join the two, and keep turning it until the sugar has set
and is cold. One ought to mix nothing in the mold apart from
plaster, reheated as you know.





+

One needs for the mold to have soaked one day
and one night in cold water <-for->, and
to be humid, when you cast in sugar.





The sign that the syrup or the sugar melted in water is sufficiently
cooked to cast fruits, is when it makes threads
    
    
when shaking it. And
if it passes that point, it is not good, for it will always be humid. If
the sugar sticks, one needs to throw some
wheat starch in the mold or rub it with an
almond.


