Furbisher

The parts of a sword are the rivet,
the tail of the sword, what comes next is the ricasso, the rest is
the c blade. The sides are the edge
&amp; the point. Some blades have a sharp ridger,
which has one single elevated ridge in the middle &amp; along the whole
length, and are easy to break. The other
blades are called of three edges or three slopes, which do have
a rise in the middle, but it is flat as if it were a sharp ridge, but
flattened, and s these
ones are the safest. The others are are called fluted, which
are notched in the middle, &amp; when it is
along the whole length, they are just as easy to break as those with
sharp ridges &amp; are more troublesome to furbish because the
fustée cannot get in. But one makes one in particular which is
narrow.

 

Of the guard of the sword are the
pommel, the branches of the guard &amp; the
pontet, which is this
iron strip which closes off the branch which is at the end of the
ricasso to stop thrusts from sliding into the guard. The
rings are these two branches in
half-round which start from the eye of the
guard up to the branch of the pontet. The branch that crosses
the guard is called the body. And this
quillon block, by which the sword
tail enters and to which all the branches
return &amp; are held, is called the eye of the guard.

Then follows the wood of the grip, which one glues, or
according to the most competent, with gummed wax, which is of
wax &amp; pitch, because rosin would be too hard.
They heat it lightly, then rub the wood of the grip with it in
order that the tang or the thread takes hold there. Otherwise, if a
thread were to come loose, it would all d
break immediately. On iron wire or dog
skin, one also puts glue on
it. The garnishment of which is put on the wood
of, which is of silk or thread, is called the
cord, which is made from two tro or three
threads turned twisted on the spinning wheel,
or 4 if the silk is thin. The slightly thicker cord holds better.
The binding, which is also made of silk at both ends of the
handle, are called the
buttons.

Some grips are made of silk, dogfish
skin, annealed iron wire,
threads of gold &amp; of fine &amp; false silver &amp; of
velvet. Iron wire has a lower price &amp; is the most
durable. Next is the grip of silk, if one does not have the
convenience of being close to the sea to procure some
dog skin, which is quite
convenient. Pou The beautiful skin costs fifty or lx
sous &amp; 4 or five dozen grips are
made from it. This kind gives a good grip even if the hand is
sweating. To work it, if it is too hard, one soaks it for one
or two hours in not quite lukewarm
aquafortis, for if it were too hot, it would cook &amp; spoil the
skin. It is sewn with black thread.