








Clockmakers

In the past, they tempered their springs by dipping them
into molten lead. But today they temper their springs
straight, & bend them once tempered, which is a
<-pa-> beautiful secret.







Casting lead in lead

There are some who make their hollow forms with thick lead, then
cast lead in them.

Lead when not cast hot enough, is white, & blacker when cast
well hot.



One can make a lead mold, & to cast in it, smoke
it with candle black. But it is never that neat.




Never does lead come so neat as tin.






Sand

If it is too fatty, one ought to reheat it and sieve it again.







Method of casting in bronze

Latten of potin <-cor->, which is
the most brittle, molds more neatly, according to the opinion of many
people, than fine latten of pots, just like all fine
latten molds neater than red copper. If you want to cast
something fine & thin, the entire secret is to cast as hot as
possible so that the substance boils. You will recognize that it is hot
enough when it smokes a lot and while stirring it throws sparks. To heat
well, place your crucible as low as possible & at the very
bottom of the forge, so that the bellows
<-fra-> beat on the middle of the crucible, for
in this way it is better than on the grate on which one usually
puts the crucible, under which the bellows beat. It is
true that the crucible risks more danger breaking, but you can
lute it as you know founders do. And also, one ought
to maintain the charcoal between the bellows & the
crucible. Also take heed to cast all at once & not in
increments & drop by drop, which would stop & plug up the
conduit of the substance. And if you were to make in the cast a
trough to feed the medal, it would be even better. And in order
that the substance heats well at the bottom, stir it, once melted, with
a stick, for iron only makes it brittle.
Turn.





Some put wool stuffing in order to heat it & make it
run.





Put under your crucible a thick iron
slab, which will redden & will maintain the heat
under your crucible.





The copper substance is found to be good for casting, when once
broken it makes the grain long & not short, for it demonstrates that
it is soft. It is half fine latten & half
red copper. This long grain is called long stalk.


