




 like other things, & on this occasion, you can cast two or
three times until your mold is full. As for the mold which
is of white plaster, pulverized & reheated as for
previous sands, you should make it well in advance, for
it serves several times. But before you use it, soak it for a good
hour in cold water & for at least
as long in water so hot, that, at
the beginning, you cannot hold your finger in it.
And <-q-> take heed that it does not imbibe
<-b-> more, <-thus-> but rather that it shows
itself to be very wet everywhere, without the water being imbibed in it.
And, removing it from the hot water, closed, cast your wax
in such a state of heat as has been said. And neither the first
nor second cast come out readily until the mold is imbibed. Let it cool
before opening it, in order that the cast thing does not break. You will
recognize that the cast is good when the wax tipped out of the mold is thin and smooth. Remember to make many
gates all along the mold, in order that the wax may run
better, thus

Make the first



 gate twice as large as for other molds. And if, in
the first cast, your work becomes porous and does not come out neat
<-[illegible]->, it is all the same, for it is necessary that you
realise that the three or four first ones are not readily good. In the
first one, you recognize if there are some barbs, which keep from
releasing well and you remove them if they do not remove
themselves at the second or third first casts. And the more
you will cast, the neater you will make it, and your mold will serve
you for more than a hundred times if it is well managed. But it is
good to soak it one night or one
day before casting in it, in order that it be well
imbibed. The same must be done for fruits of sugar. This
wax is very soft & amiable & pliant as
copper, and it is so strong because of the sulfur, which
renders it meltable much before the other, such that you can prove it on a
hot slate. And the sulfur that you will have put
in it will be found, the second time that you melt it, cracked at the
bottom. Having thus passed through the wax, it does not inflame
from a candle. And on this occasion <-that->, I
think it will cast very neatly for medals. One uses the same wax
in place of varnish to engrave



When your animal is cast, cut with a hot penknife the flashing
& superfluous things. And if you want to refold it & twist it
around on some stick or taper, put it to soften
<-on-> in hot water, and hold it while twisting it
around.



Cut down the protuberance of the gates, in order that they are smooth
& that the wax has more of the silver to run in one
go without turning around in the folds of the snake.


X



