






Vipers and snakes



I molded a viper, which, for casting, is more appropriate than
any other snake because it has scales beautiful & very
visible on all the body & principally on the head and under the
throat. It has a flat head, the snout reddish, tending toward
incarnadine, & snubbed like the horned asp or like
<-a-> the top of a pig's snout, big jowls, the
eyes very close to the snout, and the mouth wide open, where it
has double canine teeth on each side, all coming out of a
strip of flesh that covers and clothes them. It also has, in the throat,
a tube of flesh, made like a dog’s penis, from which comes its
stinger. Other snakes have a double row of teeth.




If you want <-cut-> <-the-> to mold the snakes
with the mouth open, you must cut off the head & leave it inside, for
it will not be released.





Molding turtles



It is a matter different from the casting of snakes, &
plants, and flowers because the cavities that are between the two shells
require several pieces. They are molded in plaster to be cast in
sugar without making a gate as do all things that you
want.





Plaster for casting of wax



When you want to cast in wax in the plaster mold,
you must know as secret that there is need for your mold to be
in hot water. Never does the animal come out so neatly as in
metal, because the wax sticks. But it is to model an
animal closest to nature <-and-> to repair
it afterward. One needs to smooth well away all the scales, <-when-> for
wax would enter there & not release well. In molding thus
the animal, flatten down the scales for wax &, on
the contrary, rub them in reverse in order that they stand up for
animals, for they will only be more visible. Also, do not wait for the
wax to <-a bit-> cool completely to release it,
but do so when it is still a bit warm. When you have also molded the
first cast of the animal, uncover well the half, in order that, in its
release, there is as much of it in one half of the mold as in the other. Make also strong wide gates, close to the animal, in order that it is fortified
when it is released, & afterward you cut this off.





+ 
Alabaster, commonly called so, which is nevertheless
plaster, is very hard but it shrinks a lot. It is very good to
make medals, but it wants to be very finely sieved.


