  Lead The best, fattest &amp; softest is brought from Germany and is not in saulmon, but in lattes of around an arm's length &amp; three fingers' width. It is transported to Lyon, and from this, the leaf is made for small mirrors in Nuremberg.   Pewterer They also make their molds from metal which lasts longer &amp; molds more cleanly than grais, because the plate comes out without flashing &amp; smooth. But this is for the rich because a mold costs fifteen or sixteen frans. They are mainly made of metal, for basins &amp; ewers &amp; salt cellars &amp; similar things which are fashioned. For pints, molds are made with white clay earth mixed with horse dung &amp; cloth waste &amp; well beaten, because the pints, being sunk in a half round, would not be able to release as well from the grais mold as from the earth, which is soft. One makes the noyau of the mold of the said pints in grais. In metal molds, one makes vents and casts all at once, which is the reason that in the middle of the dish, no smoky black line which comes from the vapor &amp; fumes of the metal that is cast, which is the cause that in that spot, the work is lumpy &amp; very often pierced. However they repair it with solder du n, as is said. These fumes are made right in the middle of the cast, &amp; in grais molds. The plate can be hammered mar to make it more vendable. But it will not last as long. Depending on the size of their platters &amp; plates, they have notches on the spoke of their iron wheels. And when they want to apply   

  Lead The best, fattest &amp; softest is brought from Germany and is not in saulmon, but in lattes of around an arm's length &amp; three fingers' width. It is transported to Lyon, and from this, the leaf is made for small mirrors in Nuremberg.   Pewterer They also make their molds from metal which lasts longer &amp; molds more cleanly than grais, because the plate comes out without flashing &amp; smooth. But this is for the rich because a mold costs fifteen or sixteen frans. They are mainly made of metal, for basins &amp; ewers &amp; salt cellars &amp; similar things which are fashioned. For pints, molds are made with white clay earth mixed with horse dung &amp; cloth waste &amp; well beaten, because the pints, being sunk in a half round, would not be able to release as well from the grais mold as from the earth, which is soft. One makes the noyau of the mold of the said pints in grais. In metal molds, one makes vents and casts all at once, which is the reason that in the middle of the dish, no smoky black line which comes from the vapor &amp; fumes of the metal that is cast, which is the cause that in that spot, the work is lumpy &amp; very often pierced. However they repair it with solder du n, as is said. These fumes are made right in the middle of the cast, &amp; in grais molds. The plate can be hammered mar to make it more vendable. But it will not last as long. Depending on the size of their platters &amp; plates, they have notches on the spoke of their iron wheels. And when they want to apply     any dish or plate, they loosen &amp; undo with the strike of a hammer the iron wedges that slide along the spokes of the wheel. And, when they are at the notch and points that they need, they tighten the said wedges, wedging them with the hammer. When their plates or dishes have been cast, soldered if needed, &amp; purged of surrounding flashing with the hot soldering iron &amp; then with a large file, they adapt it on the wheel; &amp; first of all they wrap their desgrusoue desgrusouer with a rope, as thick rope as the little finger, &amp; lean it firmly on the crossbar to secure it well. And while someone else promptly turns the wheel, they guide the sharp edge of the esgrusouer by hand s toward the edge of the round hollow, &amp; gently guide it to the center of the circle. And this desgrusouer is for removing the first rough &amp; lumpy skins of the work. And next they even it out with ae cutting iron called a plane, the sharp edge of which they rub with a little putty on leather nailed onto a piece of wood having, and this in such a way that the flesh or grain is on the outside, for if the sharp edge of this plane was not thus rubbed &amp; burnished, it would not polish &amp; not burnish the tin, au which would stay white, &amp; not black &amp; burnished like a mirror. Moreover, they repair the work for the second time with this plane as they did with the esgrusouer. Then, with a knife or another sharp iron, they scrape the edges of the platters or plates to smooth them so that they are not found sharp when handled     Their hammers must be quite even &amp; polished, and if by chance the rust, the or some other use, has damaged them, they first polish them with emery stone powder, then they finish burnishing &amp; smoothing with the putty. Otherwise they would not strike neatly. It is also necessary that the surface of the anvils be the same.   New vine Having taken well, if you want it to grow strong branches, having plowed it, put at each foot two handfuls of pigeon dung.   Colored waters Distilled urine, distilled vinegar and eau-de-vie take on a cerulean and green tint from pulverized and finely ground aes ustum. And this tincture is red copper in its residue if you distil the aforesaid things through a filter.   Varnish resistant to water Flanders varnish, made with turpentine &amp; oil of turpentine or mastic, can come off and does not hold up in the rain. But that made with white walnut oil, as you have done, holds in the rain and is very clear &amp; beautiful &amp; dries soon. This is why one uses this one for painted banners &amp; signs that one carries in the rain.   Fruit made from sugar One does not paint them with a paintbrush like other s things with moistened color, because the sugar would melt. But one rubs them with color with the finger.   