Cast of tin

If the plant or flower that you want to cast in tin is
delicate &amp; fine, it is necessary that the tin exceeds the
lead in the mixture, &amp; on the contrary, if it is thick, it is
necessary that the lead exceeds. Therefore, for the mixture
fine thing, put in some fine tin, not at all the quarter
part of lead. And make sure that your mold is
hottish, such that you can hold it in your
hand when you want to cast. As for the
alloyed tin, the same as mentioned, it is necessary that it is
very hot &amp; almost red for casting, so that it penetrates. Otherwise,
having to run the length of the fine branches of
the plant, it will get cold before arriving there. And do not forget to
mix in it a little looking-glass tin, which makes it run better
&amp; firms it up.



In the lead alloyed with tin, or tin alloyed with lead,
you can put a little bit of metalline, &amp; it will seem
silver. But do not put too much, for this hardens the substance
&amp; sours it also, so that for a delicate thing like legs &amp;
similar things, it would not be appropriate.






For giving venting to the mold

In addition to your vents, if your es plant is
very fine, you can pass a thread through the
clay circle, rather than casting with a
needle, &amp; make sure it passes through the plant. And with the
thread burning like the plant, a hole will remain which will
give air &amp; venting, to help clean.






Reheating the noyau molds

After your molds have their gate, vents &amp;
clamps, as is said, make at the end of the forge
en, or in some clean place, a surrounding of
bricks, and fill it with large half-lit charcoals. And place your
molds on top, and leave the charcoals thus to kindle by
themselves for a half hour, so that they heat little
by little and not all at once. Finally, as they will begin to become white,
beat little by little the thus half-lit large charcoals
on top &amp; blow with your little bellows until they are
warmed. And thus, little by little, invigorate the fire,
without haste, until your molds are quite red on the outside
&amp; the inside. If it is for casting some plant or some animal which
does not release well, &amp; if, for this reason, one needs to burn
it in the mold, &amp; when you look through the gate, &amp; through it, you see the molds are very red &amp; inflamed
inside, this will be your signal that they are reheated enough. But if
you do not see this signal, increase &amp; continue the fire until it is
the case. If there is nothing in the mold that needs burning,
it will be enough that they are dried well on the same fire, if it is
for casting tin. They reheat better in a reverberatory
furnace.



Do not pull out your reheated molds from the fire before they
have cooled themselves, &amp; take care that the wind or the
cold does not hit them while very hot, for this would make them burst. One
must not reheat them before they are dry and firmed up, for they would
cast in a different way, and it is necessary beforehand to make gates
&amp; vents &amp; place clamps.


    

Take care not to heat the fire in one go, for fear f
that your molds crack inside.



They are reheated enough when the entire hole of the gate is red. When
it is black, it is not enough.



For casting in silver, one must not reheat two times
&amp;, if there is nothing in the mold that needs
despouiller burning, simply because it does not
release well. All the molds of flowers are reheated
two times, first for