








Mat maker

They make two kinds of them in Toulouse, one to hang on the
partition walls of rooms, which they weave almost as fine as
the straw <-p->hats worn by villagers. And
they make them in long bands, some the width of ten
<-b-> straws, others of thirteen. And they
work on them mainly in summer. And in
winter, when they put it to use, they sew it. But beforehand,
they put it in dye and commonly make it in three colors, green,
red, and sometimes violet. The green one is made in a single 
pastel woad dye, because green being made from yellow and blue, the
pastel woad discharging itself onto the straw,
which shows its dark yellow, one obtains bright green. For the red, they
use alum and brazilwood. For the violet, they use
pastel woad & a little copperas, which
browns the blue with its black tint.







Glassworker

They do not have the invention for making a perfect red in a work
which one needs to reheat. Nonetheless, try the red from Germany, 
which is rouge d’escaille. They make their common red with sanguine, 
looking-glass tin, rocaille, 
litharge & a little iron scales. The
said red is applied on one side & the other of the glass in order
that it has more color; if it were applied on one side only, it would be too
pale orange.







Founder

They buy rosette at xx lb a quintal,
which is harder to melt than latten because it is softer. For,
the softer the great metals
# are, the <-soft-> more difficult they are
to melt. The tin for bells, which is fine tin
<-is more-> and which is brittle, is easier to melt than lead,
which is soft. Latten made brittle by the calamine is
melted more quickly than red copper. The metal, which is the
substance of bells, mixed with tin, and very brittle, is soon
melted. The more silver is alloyed, the sooner it melts, that is
why solder is made with it. In Germany they make very
light candlesticks, it is because they turn them by means of
water, but they are breakable. A quintal of
<-per-> fine coppersmith’s rosette is
sold for xxx or 40 lb. Another, which founders use,
is sold for xii or xv lb. The quintal of metal,
six lb. <-Put in->





#

Gold, silver, copper,

latten, iron.


