










Your lute being dry, put, in the early
morning, your crucible in a four à
vent, &amp; at the beginning, give slow fire, as much for
reheating your crucible as for gently letting the fury of the
saltpeter pass. Then, invigorate little by little &amp; with
judgment the fire. And there leave in the full vigor of the fire your
substances for 12 hours or a natural
day. Make each time a good quantity of this substance, so as not to
do it often, because the fumes, which are dangerous, could
hurt you. And before working at it, take in the
morning good buttered toast, and hold the
said butter, or zedoary, or gold coins, in
your mouth, and ada cover your
face with a cloth from the eyes down. From
this mass, the crust will serve you make run to
clear the great works of the silver from
the metallic mass like snakes &amp; similar
things when it starts to melt. But And
then, the grain that will be at the bottom of the
crucible should be put aside for principally delicate
flowers and herbs putting a little in the melted
silver when you want to cast it However it is necessary
to always put a little of this grain in the silver when you
want to cast it is well melted and when you are ready to
cast. Thus, do as you make fine tin on copper,
&amp; for looking-glass tin on lead and on tin.
And just as looking-glass tin sours lead and tin
too much if you put it in too great a quantity, likewise, the grain
composed of the aforesaid substances would sour your silver
if l you were to put in too much, and obscure it.
This aforesaid composition will suffice you for a long time, when
it has been for a whole day on a gentle
gentle fire at the beginning &amp; invigorated degree by degree until
the end. Then, having given it one load of charcoal, let it consume it
by itself, &amp; let your crucible cool. Next, break it. You
will find two hard slabs &amp; cakes in the
crucible. The upper one is as if petrified Once,
composed of salts, sublimated &amp; mixed together. The lower one
is metallic, composed of filings, aes
ustum &amp; antimony, having the grain very small.
Pulverize the upper cake, made from salts, &amp;
put some to clear, &amp; clean the silver, and the metallic
grain will serve you to put in the melted metal.



Charcoal fire




Or else after you have had your drugs pestled by some rustic. And
having put them in your crucible, &amp; the latter luted &amp;

dry as said &amp; placed into the furnace, have the fire
managed by a shop boy familiar with charcoal.




One sells well to silversmiths this metallic mass to
soften their solder, because when melting, latten exhales.
And with a little of this substance, they solder over the other
solder.



