










however, do not remove it until you have completely repaired the
turtle, for you will use this earth as cement if
you need to embed something or repair with the small chisel. If
there is some flashing at the joints of the mold, you will remove
it, either with the burin called a
chaple or a very sharp penknife,
or with a small file, & then with the small
chisel, always having the natural one, to do this better, in
front of you. You can curl on a file the point of a small
chisel which is not quenched to make something lumpy. For these
<-two-> turtles & hollow things that
presuppose being large enough, cast your alloy of half
lead & half fine tin. There is more work in
molding a turtle than for twelve molds of flowers. If
there is some crocum in your sand, there will not be
flashing, & if, by some chance, there is some on the sides, it will be
thinner than paper, as long as your mold is tightened
well with a press.
    
    
 And to make the scales of turtles
or other animals, you can make some little small chisels in
the fashion of a round cutting-punch, others in the fashion of a
gouge or the scale of a snake & lizard,
and others on a file to make the curly & lumpy bits. The
turtles which are not molded hollow do not have as much work,
for they are molded in two pieces, to repair them with small
chisels, small cutting-punches, small gouges
& small serrated chisels.

    








Wheat oil

One needs to make it between two quite sparkling hot iron
plates, especially the lower one, which will be sloping, on
which you will put some wheat, quite even & uniform.
And then you will place the other, all red, on top, & you will press
it until you see the black oil drip well. Reiterate that until
you have enough of it. This oil dries immediately. It gives gold
color to silvered & burnished things, augments the color of
gilded things, serves as a varnish on iron for
engraving on it afterward, for varnishing sword guards tawny. And could
also serve makers of gilded leather well.

One needs to use it when it is newly
made. And for things to be molded, it must not be as thick as for
coloring.



It is not for anointing hairy animals,
for it is too strong & stiff, but it is good to give form to the
legs of a small animal, like a fly & suchlike. It is also
excellent for coloring false white stones.
