












pieces. The falconet is loaded with a ladle, and one
commonly gives it only one ladle. There are also
other falconets weighing three quintals, and which
are nine pans long. Their ball weighs half a
lb. Their charge is a quarter of powder. It is loaded
either with a ladle, but more commonly with a charge. At the
breech, 3 balls, & 2 in front. To the small pieces which
are under 3 quintals one gives them at least 3 balls
& a twelfth part of a ball at the breech, & sometimes
takes away from the front to make this addition to the breech, according
to the length one gives them.





The strength of the piece is at the level of the trunnion, which is the
point of departure of the lit powder.





The strength of the berche is at the
maslée, & at the back of the
breech.





A double musket weighs 2 quintals, is seven
pans long, carries a ball of a quarter of a

lb or a little less. At the breech 3 balls, two in
front. One loads it with as much powder as ball, up to the top of
the escutcheon, which in these small pieces can amount to 3

or 4 balls of arquebus powder. For if one uses
cannon powder, one can load it to a thickness of <-c->
five balls.





One needs to understand all of this as iron balls. When one
shoots a metal ball, one over-charges by a quarter
ladle because if a cannon ball weighs 40
lb, the metal one weighs lx lb. One also takes
the gun-sight higher when shooting a metal ball. For if one
shoots an [<-iron->] iron ball point-blank, one takes six lines
higher when shooting metal balls. A metal ball <-makes->
alloyed with copper, in order that it is not frangible, is more
effective hitting at close range than that of iron. But the
iron one hits more fiercely from afar. 



A simple musket weighs one quintal, is six
pans long. <-carries a ball weighing [illegible]
qu-> One has no consideration for those which are under two
quintals, which readily carry lead balls
<-un-> of the weight of the ball, but of the caliber.
However, those which can receive balls of metal or iron do
better because they will penetrate more than six lead ones. Its
charge is up to the escutcheon, namely the thickness of 4
balls. 



Arquebus à croc weighs lx lb, that is to say the large one is
five pans long, its charge is up to the
escutcheon, namely the length of 4 balls, it

carries lead balls, and is for the defence of houses. Of these
arquebus à croc, both the large & the small ones, one makes orgues
which are <-or-> appropriate for an assault, both outside &
inside the place. They are founded separately as if to serve for uses
other than orgues. See the 4th leaf following, marked

    





