.





Varnish for lutes

They take a little turpentine, &amp; oil of turpentine or
of spike lavender, &amp; amber pulverized &amp;
passed very subtly, &amp; make like that of mastic, &amp; add in a little dragon’s bloodto
color it and make it reddish,
and others some terra merita for yellow.





Borders of a garden

One needs to work the earth, then make it thinner with the
rake. And next, if it is dry, one needs to moisten it. Then,
stretch the cord very close, and hit on the entire
length of the cord as with the back
of a pruning knife, in order that the cord
marks a straight line, the length of which you will un
bord make holes with an iron stake where you
will plant your rosemary. Behead &amp; cut to measure, and
prune from the bottom up.





Locksmith

To tin nails well, and other work, they file their
work very neatly. Then to clean it well &amp; rid it of grease, they
make it boil in vinegar, then they wipe it well with a
linen cloth. Next, they heat it &amp; pass some
rosin over the top, which coats it with a shiny skin like
varnish. This done, they melt some pure &amp; fine tin in
their estamiere, which is a little square iron
box. And when the tin is well melted &amp; moderately warm, they
throw in rosin to burn the filth, &amp; then they let the
head of a nail or something similar soak a little, &amp; having
remained there for seven or eight pauses, they take
it out and shake it, hitting the top with an iron to
make the tin that is superfluous fall off, &amp; clean it with a
small stick wrapped in tow. And if it is not well
tinned, you will rub it hot with a piece of rosin &amp; do
as before &amp; let it cool. When the work cools, it becomes yellow,
which is a sign that the tin is the right temperature. But it
becomes blue if the tin is too hot. Things t
thus tinned are durable &amp; are not undone like tinning done
in leaf, thus at the end of a year, they can be clarified
&amp; renewed by heating &amp; rubbing them.

Leadsmiths say that making a lizard die in the
melted il des tin makes the tinning
become very golden. Or else putting in sal ammoniac.