Molding turtles

This is the continuation of the second preceding leaf. When you have
well uncovered the part of the belly of the turtle, the
underneath of the throat &amp; of the legs, &amp; having cleaned it all well,
do not forget to neatly uncover this cavity that these animals have in
their shell between the neck &amp; the shoulders. Those of the
water do not have ones as deep as those of the
garrigue, which are leaner. And among
these, there are some that have ones more ensconced than others. Do not
forget, therefore, to uncover all of this well to better represent its
nature. But if there is some cavity which twists too much inside and
can neither be seen nor released,
    
 put in some small pieces of wax,
&amp; with points of hot, thick iron wire, stretch &amp;
adapt the said wax. Then, bouch stuff with
soft clay the entrance of all its cavities. Put the
clay circle around your mold, made already of
two pieces, which contains the back of the turtle. And to mold
its belly, one needs to divide in three, as you see. That is to say, you
will put an entre deulx of clay on top of the
throat &amp; another on the edge of the shell of the tail,
#. And having oiled and the shell of
the belly &amp; having rubbed it with eau-de-vie, cast your sand
a little thick, &amp; temper with hot water as before. Having set,
remove these entredeulx of clay, then uncover
well the front &amp; back legs, that is to say the part underneath &amp;
the tail &amp; the throat, &amp; remove the clay from the cavities
qu, all in one piece if you can, for this will show
you if this cavity will release well. And if the pulled-out clay brings with it the wax that you put there, put back it in the places
that cannot release, as is said. And if some part is taken away or let
go, attach &amp; rejoin it to the mold with some wax
&amp; the point of hot iron. Do not forget to put some
po melted wax at the end of the nails of the
turtles to make the vent. Your belly shell molded and uncovered,
your mold can be seen thus.






in such a way that only the entire belly shell be uncovered, to mold it
alone