Black varnish for sword guard, bands for trunks,
&amp;c

Take linseed oil or more cheaply, walnut
oil, and rid it of grease with garlic &amp;
onions +hog’s
fennel, some also add bread crusts, which you will
boil in it for a good quarter of an hour. Next, put
in one lb of the oil thus boiled the size of a walnut of black
pitch &amp; a double handful of grains of wheat, without
removing the garlic &amp; onions, and let
it boil together for a good quarter of an hour. And
when the pitch is well melted &amp; when the oil has body,
you can remove it from the fire. Then, to varnish, place your
iron over a low charcoal fire &amp; apply your
varnish with a feather or a brush.
And when you see that it no longer smokes, it is done and your
varnish is dry.



For excellent black varnish, add two or three paternoster
beads of jet among the rest.



Some consider walnut oil better.



If there is a lot of varnish, it needs to boil for at least
half a day, for it is better the more it boils. It
is dangerous if it catches fire, if it goes over the top, and is
hard to extinguish. Make this therefore in a courtyard or an
open space.

 

In five or six lb of oil, one must put one lb
of galipot, which costs 4 sous, &amp; some
peeled garlic cloves. This varnish in and of
itself is not black, but it blackens over the fire.



See below, around the 3rd part of this book,
after sands, in the chapter on furbishers.





Black varnish without fire, without disassembling the
harnesses or removing the bands from
trunks

Take varnish of spike lavender oil &amp; mix in
soot black or lampblack, &amp; without fire it will mix in
by itself. Varnish with a brush &amp; it will soon be
dry. Turpentine varnish will be quite good, but it does not dry
as soon.





Varnish of iron engravers

Take linseed oil or walnut oil
&amp;, in place of black pitch, you will put in a little
pitch resin, &amp; it needs to be cooked in the fashion of black
varnish on fire. And for applying it, heat your iron &amp;
give it only one layer of varnish, &amp; when it no longer
smokes, it is dry. Next engrave with a steel point
whatever you want. Next take salt &amp;
verdigris &amp; mix as much of one as of the other in quite
strong vinegar &amp; leave it for xx4 hours
before using it, &amp; all will be tempered. Next spread some of this
liquor or sauce on the engraved object with a sponge