








Shadows

 Because blacks make different colors, some a reddish black, others
tending toward blue, and others toward green, choose those which tend
toward yellow to make beautiful shadows in oil, for the shadow,
especially that of men, is yellowish. And for this effect use very
strongly ground jet, which you will mix with a little
yellow ocher & lead white. Or else, after
you have ground your lead white <-bro-> and
<-clean p-> gathered it with the 
, grind the jet into it. Thus it will be more
desiccative, & making on its own a yellowish black. A little white
mixed in renders it perfect for men’s shadows. Blacks which make a
greenish black are appropriate for women’s shadows. Take, then, some
black of , a little sap green & bistre, &
you will have a perfect shadow for women in distemper.





The powder of orberé grain is darker than
umber & when you lack umber, the said powder will do,
but it does not have body.







Flesh color

You must know well the mixing of colors & the appropriate
shadows, but above all make sure to soften them well. And note &
observe that a thing which appears flat needs to be softened lengthwise,
as if going from <-l{ett}re a ga-> right to
left like


, and whatever ought to appear round must be softened in circles.






    
One cannot layer oil on cut paper & model as in
distemper because the color would run. Thus, to gild with
or mat, one needs to pounce & then layer the gold
color with the paintbrush.
    

        
All fatty colors, such as ceruse and minium,
massicot, ocher, lead white, are good for making
gold color.
    

    
    



Mirror

When you make flesh colors, it is good to have a
cristallin mirror, which represents
nature well, and in which <-it-> you will see if your
shadows are soft enough or too crude. But do not look at it with a
candle, for firelight will make the shadows reddish.
The painter also teaches himself with the mirror,
for he sees in it what nature can do.







Fatty colors

If some part remains shiny and does not seem dry after the layered
colors have penetrated, it means that this place is fatty, & that
the second colors one layers on would not take easily, unless
you rub this place with soap or breathe on it, because the
humidity will make the colors take.


        
Every color or thing that becomes dense when water is put in during the
grinding has body. But those which do not have it, such as
pestled glass, lake, &c, become clear.

