






Counterproofing

Make some soap water & with this, rub & moisten the
intaglio piece that you want to counterproof, then lay white
paper on it & rub very vigorously across the top with a
tooth or the bottom of a glass & you will
transfer your printed piece. It is true that it will be in reverse, but
if you oil your paper with spike lavender
<-&-> or turpentine oil, it will represent
from the <-left-> right on the other side. Then follow
these lines with a paintbrush or a quill, then heat the
paper & the oil will go away & leave your
paper white. And if you want this not to be known, if by chance,
you borrowed the piece, moisten the paper, and the polishing that
the burnisher has made on the back, which shows what has been
done, will not be known. The soap water will turn the piece
yellow, but well-gummed water, which has the same effect, does
not do this. If you want to, for the same effect, make gummed
water, then mix some soap in it & do as is said.





Cutters of printing plates

To clean the copper plates, or to make worn ones
print better, boil them for four or five good hours
in a good lye quite spent in the wash water. 
Then make your ink with some linseed
oil & not with walnut oil & press with the
rollers. The copper plates are sooner made than
wood blocks, but they are not so appropriate for
printing promptly. The wood ones are laborious but also will
sooner have printed twenty sheets than the other two. To
carve in wood, the secret is first to poach, that is to say to
lay the counterproof or drawn piece onto the wood block
& to make sure that the side with the traced line is stuck to the
wood. Once dry, you then gently rub with a moist
handkerchief the back of the paper which, by rubbing, will
become so delicate that almost only the line will remain, which, next,
one follows in cutting the surface. You could do this with historiated
glass & coat with noir d’escaille, to then scrape
& layer your colors on the uncovered area. To make ink for
copper plates



These rollers are good for promptly printing with cut cartons different kinds of pastes.



One can place the plates among the linen when the
lye is quite pure, or in a pot.




