Second cast

When you have well molded the first part of the animal, that is the
back, the backbone, and the entire top part, and the
len half-mold where it is enclosed has set
    and is hard enough, 
 +  uncover the whole bottom part &amp; side of the belly,
    
 now with a knife &amp; tant
at the thickest places, &amp; then with a penknife, where the
most delicate parts are enclosed, such as the legs, the tail, &amp;
similar things, and because the head is higher, you will also need to
look for it &amp; uncover deeper, and make a deeper notch there which
ought to release easily. That is to say, widening on the outside, in order that
the second mold that you will cast on it can come out well,
which even the animal can help with, which is malleable and obedient,
being natural. However, ad be more careful
when uncovering the throat of the lizard than with the
snake, for the lizard has large jaws &amp; large bones
that are not malleable and has hollow ears, where, if the wet sand has
entered, it is not aff easy to release. But you will
avoid all of this, if you uncover half of the head and those things that
you know do not release well. Once everything is uncovered well, blow
on top &amp; wipe each part, by wiping with tiny hog 
bristle brushes, slightly moistened by the end with a
little saliva, or with clear water, as you uncover
it, in order that your the uncovered lower part of your
animal will be very neat. #
🝋 With this done, dip le
rev your mold your mold, for the length
of a paternoster in water, not
du the uncovered side but
opposite, &amp; the reverse of the uncovered thing. And this is in order that,
by sucking the water inside, the oil with which
you next anoint the other side to avoid, is not
imbibed at all, but remains on the surface &amp; prevents the second
cast that you will cast on it from attaching to it. Having therefore
thus dipped the reverse of your mold in the
water, take a paintbrush especially dedicated to
this &amp; anoint it with it, anoint with oil
the whole surface of the mold, except the animal, which must in
no way touch the oil, &amp; take heed to retrace well &amp; to anoint
with the point of a paintbrush between the parts &amp;
through all the delicate parts. And if by chance the oil is
imbibed, dip the mo reverse of the mold, as
mentioned, in water, &amp; you will see the oil return to
the surface in little drops.




Mold small animals like big ones, except that you need to make
delicate points of of fil cist
cittern strings, both long &amp; short.



    
        


remove with your small flat pincers, all the points.




    


And then,

+ now with




    


However, leave the point of the throat, so that it serves as a
clue to find the head, which is deeper down than any other part, because
when making the arrangement you disposed it higher. It is also at the
level of the head that you should make the biggest notch, &amp; start
with this one to uncover, and follow the rest through the trace of the
points.




#

And if some bit of nail from a leg, or from a tail, or from another
should separate from the mold, put y
between the two a small grain of wax, &amp; with the point of a
hot iron wire, join it, then adapt your mold with a
knife, &amp; make notches on its sides so that the other
half binds to it.🝋