






Molding promptly and reducing a hollow form to a relief

You can imprint the relief of a medal in colored wax, &
you will have a hollow form, in which you can cast en noyau a relief
of your sand, on which you will make a hollow form of lead
or tin, in which you will cast a wax relief. And then on
that wax you will make your mold
en noyau hollow, to cast there the relief of gold &
silver or any other metal you like. But to hasten your
work if you are in a hurry, make the first imprint & hollow form in
bread pith, prepared as you know, which will mold very neatly.
And into that, cast in melted wax, which will give you a beautiful
relief on which you will make your noyau.





Very light and hollow work of gold

Cast a lizard or any medal you like in base silver,
like billon. Next, gild it lightly. And once the first
gilding is done & dried by fire, brighten, rub with a
scratch-brush, & make another layer of light gilding
like the first time, & do thus three or four times or more,
according to the thickness you want to give. And then, having made a
small hole in the least visible place, put your work into good
aquafortis, which penetrating to the silver through the hole
will eat it all away without damaging the gold, so that you will
have a lizard hollow to its nails, or any other work, so light
that by blowing you will agitate it. But take heed not to make the layer
of amalgamated gold all at once, or of hardly any thickness each
time, because that would block the small features, but proceeding
therein as said, lightly & several times, and cleaning
well, you will do well.



In order for the aquafortis to eat away better, it is necessary
to <-cast-> cast in base silver.





Chasing

Lead is so fatty & soft that one cannot strike it boldly,
& one needs to have a very light hand. The other great
metals are easier. With a burin called the
onglet you make & retrace the more delicate lines,
with the ordinary engraving burin the broader ones, and with
the chaple you remove the big flashing, and with the
small chisels you soften the harshness of the lines, you smooth, you
add relief to a line.


