 Comment. urb. rom. Hieronimo Ruscelli Hermolaus Barbarus Angelius Bargaeus, De aucupio et venatione Nicolaus Damascenus Caresariensis, De rebus Persarum Isidorus Osorius
 cinnamon for the stomach. Or else marshmallow root in a chicken broth. The fresh kind is more mollifying. Beating syrup of
 sanguine, as much of one as of the other, also lamb tallow the size of a bean or a pea depending
 you have gilded with tinsel, color it with smoke of partridge or of yellow or red cloth, & it will be
 which is more appropriate for an azure background. Doublets Good dragon ’s blood soaked in eau-de-vie carries its mastic or glue
 mastic or glue in itself, as do sap-green & saffron. Fish glue or isinglass and mouth glue It is made from
 glue or isinglass and mouth glue It is made from codfish skin, boiled rather than being salted. Joiners glue their masterpieces
 iron Rub your weapons or other gilt objects with dry horse dung. For whitening ceruse Hard-boil eggs, divide them in half
 eyes or bruising Make two small thin slices of raw mutton flesh, & with a head band, apply to the eyes
 and you m will very neatly cast in plaster a lizard or something else. One ought not to cast unless it
 with a diamond point, and I polished it with small hog bristle brushes and tripoli. I do not know if it
 similar, & dye. This will not come off unless the animal sheds. Non bona. Polishing of stones Engraved tai stones are
 silk because it is stronger & casts out flour like horse hair. For knowing the good cendrée of azure for oil
 Toadstone The kind which comes from the head of the toad & has the figure of the toad painted naturally, as
 head of the toad & has the figure of the toad painted naturally, as you have seen, is the most excellent.
 be neither able to move, nor speak, nor thwart thieves. Snakes It is said that if one calls a snake in
 thieves. Snakes It is said that if one calls a snake in Greek, saying ΟΦΗ ΟΦΗ, it will flee. Likewise, if
 ΟΦΗ, it will flee. Likewise, if one nom calls a swine in Greek, y ïon, it will come. Candles Candlemakers never
 use for it. For walls of earth and rustic construction Swallows have taught us this craft, making their nests out of
 cast in sand. The earth is sandy clay mixed with horse dung & cloth waste. That which is has been used
 on it with silverpoint, and next erases it with a cuttlefish bone by rubbing them. Letter, more legible One cuts the
 arquebus powder instead of ordinary cannon powder. And four good horses are sufficient to drag them. They are easy, & close
 of powder, its ball of 40 lb. One needs xxv horses to draw it. When one fires it farther than its
 serve to support the battery. One needs fifteen or sixteen horses for moving it. They are tout of the same alloy
 thirteen or xiiii pans long like the large cannon. Ten horses can move it. It accompanies well the large culverin for
 from re-fortifying after the cannons have played or fired. Four horses can draw it. It shoots eight or nine hundred paces
 on the walls or on a tower. One needs three good horses for drawing it. The passe-volant weighs vi quintals, is eight
 it has three balls & two in the front. Two horses can move it, for a single horse does not begin
 the front. Two horses can move it, for a single horse does not begin to move a piece. It is used
 three balls, at the front, two. To move it, two horses , although such pieces are hardly moved insofar as they
 bags, which for the best result is must be of cat skin which is more mitten-like than any other. And then
 big ladles. Its ball weighs 56 lb. One needs thirty horses to draw it. It makes much more of a fracas
 needs to be as large as the thickness of a swan ’s quill, & you need not bother to make it
 wheels & also put leather soles or shoes on the horses’ hooves in order that one does not hear them. Gunner
 does not adhere to the mortar while pestling is oleaginous. Dragon ’s blood Take a well chosen tear of it which
 time, then apply it on gold. The good kind of dragon ’s blood can be found in large pieces like cake
 to be very ardent & passed several times. The darker dragon ’s blood is the best & has more of a
 of tragacanth gum with which I think they adulterate the dragon ’s blood. When it is applied on burnished gold, it
 pints, molds are made with white clay earth mixed with horse dung & cloth waste & well beaten, because the pints,
 having plowed it, put at each foot two handfuls of pigeon dung. Colored waters Distilled urine, distilled vinegar and eau-de-vie take
 that it floats by two or three fingers. For making rabbits come out of a burrow Take some embers in a
 leather Make a small sheath of plain leather, such as cow or morocco, somewhat thick, as tall as three fingers, sewn
 not beat the earth & prevent their birth. Havets attract field mice who eat the seeds. And for avoiding this, one must
 acutum of the sort that is red-veined, which is called dragon ’s blood, and apply it de to the forehead of
 Paul's day fails to take, & for covering the bark, cow dung is very appropriate, for it is not undone in
 the white enamel cross is blood of fine tear of dragon ’s blood tempered with eau-de-vie or else Indian laque platte,
 It renders itself fatty once beaten and also mixed with horse dung. Potter’s earth would be too fatty and would crack
 as much sand and a quarter or a fifth of horse dung. And leave it to dry, then turn it to
 calcined alabaster or something similar, or the burned marrow of ox horn or burned aspalte throughout. If you grind it quite
 it makes it very porous. Try mixing in soot black. Ducks Young domestic ones do not grow for a month after
 elsewhere, some add d a little minium to it. Sheared ewes If the shearer sometimes wounds them, he puts the very
 sometimes wounds them, he puts the very dung of the ewe on top. When they are fat, they are easier to
 have been with his wife for this would make the sheep die. Colors and gilding on glass One ought not to
 beautiful turquin. It grows amongst grains, in light soils. white Horse hair sieves They are made at Coustance in Normandy with
 Horsehair sieves They are made at Coustance in Normandy with horse tail hair which they clean with lye because they sort
 Against the falling sickness Take or four or five fresh crow eggs, & the over the space of 4 or five
 pestled & put between pieces cuts in a piece of beef , then boiled, rejoins them, as they say. A drink
 a furnace for melting a large quantity of metal Curing dogs of mange Give them a pill of precipitate, that is
 well pestled, & incorporate it with your mustard seed. Keeping birds and animals skin them Take a measurement of their body,
 cou filled it with cotton & sewn it, skin them, birds leaving, however, the head, the neck, the wings & the
 head, the neck, the wings & the feet on the birds , & the head, the legs & the feet &
 solder that pewterers glassworkers use. Lump of iron Calcined iron oyster shell Sand for lead casting Rye straw ashes well boiled
 it. Another Burnt & calcined pumice stone. Burnt & calcined cuttlefish bones, as much of one as of the other; &
 other soft one. And without this, it would become waste. Birds Calandra larks & all birds taken from the nest &
 soft one. And without this, it would become waste. Birds Calandra larks & all birds taken from the nest & which have
 this, it would become waste. Birds Calandra larks & all birds taken from the nest & which have not had freedom
 which makes them sick & sometimes makes them die, especially calandra larks . One knows this when they are sad & do
 by turning with the tip of quite pointy feather. The calandra lark does not want to be without grey river sand, &
 smallest. The largeish one will reach 25 to 30 paces. Birds Those that can are taken at St. Michael are good
 March die, because they are starting to fall into love. Ortolans are fed on oats all summer in order that they
 have their young in this country, they go away like turtledoves do. Siskins should also be taken from All Saints’ Day
 young in this country, they go away like turtledoves do. Siskins should also be taken from All Saints’ Day until Christmas,
 for after that they go to the mountains to brood. Ortolans are ventriloquists, such that singing without opening the beak, one
 you want, strengthen it with paper glued on the back. Small birds Ortolans sing at night if they are left in the
 strengthen it with paper glued on the back. Small birds Ortolans sing at night if they are left in the serain,
 are better for fattening for fine tables than for singing. Chaffinches are prone to becoming blind, & their eyes become swollen
 & their eyes become swollen at the beginning of August. Goldfinches like lettuce seeds very much, & often one catches them
 for them, they are ordinarily fed with hemp seed. The passe solitaire is purged with a spider, which one needs to give
 with hemp seed. The passe solitaire is purged with a spider , which one needs to give to it once a
 week in order that no gaillardisse comes to it. The calandra is purged with dry mortar, composed of lime & sand
 sand to keep it from gaillardise & fattening too much. Young small birds are purged with the same dry mortar, by putting some
 dry mortar, by putting some pieces in their cages. The cuckoo lays in the nest of ortolans otherwise called verdaule. This
 in their cages. The cuckoo lays in the nest of ortolans otherwise called verdaule. This bird is very simple. In the
 The cuckoo lays in the nest of ortolans otherwise called verdaule . This bird is very simple. In the past, I
 lays in the nest of ortolans otherwise called verdaule. This bird is very simple. In the past, I have given leave
 after several days returned to their cage. For feeding young goldfinches , one needs to pestle almonds with pith a very
 and lettuce seed or hemp seed. If it is for linnet , some rapeseed. Curried steel and files The steel that
 be too loose. The work done in Algiers Take a colt of three or 4 years & feed it on rye
 barley & straw pig cut in the manner one feeds horses in Spain, and water it with good fountain or river
 ounce (others say for lx eggs half a lb) of female silkworm seeds . And after having luted the mattras well (I do
 to the neck, and leave it there until several f worms are engendered. And then remove the mattras & do not
 on the hot layer of the dung until all the worms will have eaten & consumed one d another, bustling &
 two months or seven weeks & will become like a snake , one empan & 4 fingers long, & one lb
 little sublimate. It casts well in small works in a cuttlefish bone, provided it is good. Molding with paper Boil over
 the price that is set in Lyon. Burnt & calcined horse bones mold very neatly. I believe that the marrow from
 neatly. I believe that the marrow from the horns of oxen or sheep, that is to say, the spongy bone from
 believe that the marrow from the horns of oxen or sheep , that is to say, the spongy bone from the
 sand receives & drinks it better than the dense one. Silkworms They are produced from seed, that is to say eggs,
 that merchants bring there is considered the best because the worms which come from there are not so subject to illnesses
 more silk. In Spain, from one ounce of silk seed, worms are produced from it which commonly yield ord xv lb
 ounces of seed are for producing such a quantity of worms , that with them you will be able to furnish
 cushions. And at the beginning, they molt like f little black ants , & as soon as there are two or three
 abounds more & is all the better for it. Some worms make it whiter, others more yellowish. And even if it
 yellows when one draws it with hot water despuys. The worms , from their birth until u the their time when
 Hieronymus Vida Albensis episcopus, de b Cremonensis, scripsit carmine de bombicum natura. How one moves them on some of the high
 prison, which one calls cocoon, commonly the size of a pigeon egg, although one finds much larger ones because it sometimes
 sometimes happens that two or three & up to xi worms are put in a cocoon, which is hairy & downy
 a fingernail. And nevertheless, to leave its prison, elle the worm gnaws it at one end, & after having stayed inside
 4 feet. On the other hand, it has become a butterfly & has wings, without, however, flying. And there are male
 the tub with a bedsheet folded double. For making a horse follow +One needs to give it sweet bread & it
 gait from the start of the way & continue it. Dogs For keeping them from biting, it is good to have
 will not be able to hurt you. For disguising a horse Cut its ears & tail, & with lit hay, singe
 & plug the touch-hole below, & take a piece of pork fat, the freshest that you can, as long as the
 ball very hot into this mixture. Against wounds Cut a chicken or a dog to test & in the wound put
 into this mixture. Against wounds Cut a chicken or a dog to test & in the wound put sap & pestled
 month of June & July, a number of the largest snails you can, with their shell, put them in a glass
 good vinegar. Stopper the whole well & put it under horse dung for the space of fifteen days. The snails will
 it under horsedung for the space of fifteen days. The snails will first live on the egg yolks, then with the
 a plant that is on the bank. Another for waters Daot ni a top with quicklime, which will consume all this
 will consume all this powder afterward, &c. Damascus steel Distil earthworms separately & horseradish leaf separately, & mix these two waters,
 into the cauldron with the said water. Take as much pigeon dung as the said earth, & as much horse dung,
 much pigeon dung as the said earth, & as much horse dung, & as much iron filings, & mix the whole
 Sheath maker Sheath makers use small, very delicate skins of lambs and young goats, almost like parchment and keep them constantly
 makers use small, very delicate skins of lambs and young goats , almost like parchment and keep them constantly re-moistened in
 of lamp smoke, of burnt bones of the feet of oxen . Shadows When you are making a painting with several
 paintbrushes is made by those who work with care from porcupine quills, by others from wood of arrows from Turkey with
 which have a firm point areon needed. And because a squirrel ’s tail hair is soft, the most careful take the
 soft, the most careful take the bristles of the oldest rats , especially of dormice if they can find them, &
 careful take the bristles of the oldest rats, especially of dormice if they can find them, & put two or three
 stick to them as to the point. The bristles of beech martens & weasels & small animals that make musk are even
 as to the point. The bristles of beech martens & weasels & small animals that make musk are even better, for
 similar things, they use paintbrushes composed of two or three rat whiskers. Azur d’esmail in oil One needs to choose the
 Flanders blue In the month of May, one puts the cow dung to putrefy under horse dung. Then one mixes with
 of May, one puts the cow dung to putrefy under horse dung. Then one mixes with florey. Snow-covered landscapes Only three
 & wax extracted all together from the honeycomb. For attracting pigeons Fry hemp seed in a pan with oil & give
 in a pan with oil & give it to the pigeons . Against bruising of the eyes At night, apply very
 them well, cut the hair from the tail of a squirrel ’s fur, as much in one go as one can
 the same length. Put one or two bristles of a rat ’s whiskers in the middle, then, grabbing it with the
 good to you, & until you notice in it the rat hairs which are entirely black & the hair of the
 hairs which are entirely black & the hair of the petit-gris is at the whitish from the root to the middle.
 a quill of a convenient thickness for it, of a duck or a crow for the small ones. Good paintbrushes are
 a convenient thickness for it, of a duck or a crow for the small ones. Good paintbrushes are those that, once
 softer files than copper does. Bones of the foot of oxen for sand Once having been burned well twice & pulverized,
 You can make various grooved compartments & in these, put fishes painted from nature & with colors on simple carton, &
 for large works & not for small ones. Sand from oxen feet, burned twice & finely ground, melts more neatly with
 afterward runs more easily in something that comes from it. Human bones are the best for casting once calcined. To cast
 order that everyone may not know what you mix in. Sheep foot bones are even better than those of oxen foot.
 in. Sheep foot bones are even better than those of oxen foot. Oil & tallow make it very porous, & pestled
 and takes color boiled with ceru fat of a young goat kid , for that of a goat buck would make it
 fat of a young goat kid, for that of a goat buck would make it break, principally if it is glazed. Wood
 sweetness and is clarified before it reaches their country. Weary horses For fortifying a harried horse, they make it drink some
 it reaches their country. Weary horses For fortifying a harried horse , they make it drink some of the aforesaid wine
 yellow mark, it is good, if not, it is fatty. Sheep fat In a certain region of England, the sheep that
 fatty. Sheep fat In a certain region of England, the sheep that graze there have very yellow fat and are nevertheless
 yellow fat and are nevertheless just as good as others. Spider In Ireland, there are none, & if one touches them
 wood, & by this method, they never have cobwebs & spider webs. Sand Grindings are very good for casting in copper,
 them, mix into the lead some nails nailheads & old horse shoes, & antimony which makes it all melt. This composition
 lead flow well, one puts in a little quicksilver. Rub cuttlefish bone on a well evened table to flatten it &
 through the two bones with pegs to mark the place. Cuttlefish bone molds lead better than anything else. But try it
 does not have beautiful enough color, you will take a partridge feather, & make it burn in a chafing-dish, and make
 down with a paintbrush, & polish it with a skin wolf ’s tooth when it is dry. Recipe for putting all
 with your wood, & put it in some very warm horse dung for the space of eight or nine days. For
 dry, and then polish it with a tooth of a wolf or dog. For making bronze in the color of gold
 then polish it with a tooth of a wolf or dog . For making bronze in the color of gold Take
 a paintbrush, then polish it with a tooth of a wolf or dog. For making bone or horn green Take verdigris
 then polish it with a tooth of a wolf or dog . For making bone or horn green Take verdigris &
 & rub the said bronze with a tooth of a wolf or dog. Making gray wood Take some grais powder, ___
 the said bronze with a tooth of a wolf or dog . Making gray wood Take some grais powder, ___ ___
 will be able to harm you. Or put half a pig ’s bladder in front of the face. Tin for casting
 quite even. Try to etch with distilled vinegar. Try calcined oyster shells. They are said to be excellent for molding. Sand
 with burnt black tracing paper, & if you add burnt horse dung, it will be all the better. Moisten with glair
 it with new sand. Sand I tried the bone of oxen feet, thoroughly burned & pulverized & ground on porphyry, until
 boiled with elm root. Iron dross, well burned bone of oxen feet, felt also well burned over a closed fire, and
 make it porous well without making it porous. Try burnt oysters . Lead For casting, there is only soft lead that
 & cleaned it with a linen cloth & very small hog bristle brushes, I once again lightly anointed it with clear
 out well. Since then I have molded the bone of oxen feet, burned, pulverized & sieved through a double sieve &
 wheat flour burned over a closed fire. Sand of burnt ox bones and rock salt I have pulverized them separately &
 neatly as tin. Tou The bone of the foot of oxen is always so lean on its own that, without being
 turns fragile & short & slow to grow. Molding with cuttlefish bone Guard against keeping them in a damp place, for
 is not too greasy or oily when you mold in cuttlefish bone. When you have cast, leave it to cool before
 half clay earth g renders very neatly. Sand from river tellins and mussels The long shells that one finds in fresh
 earth g renders very neatly. Sand from river tellins and mussels The long shells that one finds in fresh water rivers,
 very neatly. Sand from river tellins and mussels The long shells that one finds in fresh water rivers, once calcined, make
 it would all d break immediately. On iron wire or dog skin, one also puts glue on it. The garnishment of
 are called the buttons. Some grips are made of silk, dogfish skin, annealed iron wire, threads of gold & of fine
 convenience of being close to the sea to procure some dog skin, which is quite convenient. To The beautiful skin costs
 it run into the scabbard. The scabbard is made of calf or sheep leather, the calf ones are all in one
 into the scabbard. The scabbard is made of calf or sheep leather, the calf ones are all in one piece, but
 The scabbard is made of calf or sheep leather, the calf ones are all in one piece, but not the sheep
 calf ones are all in one piece, but not the sheep ones. But, when the swords are long, one makes them
 of boxwood to cover & even it. From a good calf skin, viii or 9 or x scabbards can be taken.
 it a little in oil. The scabbard of a good cow is better than any and also costs more, except the
 Under the velvet, one commonly puts plain canvas or a sheep scabbard or a parchment cover. But the best scabbard of
 of all is a waxed scabbard, of either velvet or calf . It is because one covers the wood with thin
 one next waxes, then one covers it in velvet or calf . A waxed scabbard is worth at least xxx sous,
 A waxed scabbard is worth at least xxx sous, a cow one xx sous. From a sheep skin, v or vi.
 least xxx sous, a cow one xx sous. From a sheep skin, v or vi. Grey guards Once they are white,
 white or flesh color, it will seem that they are fleas & blemishes. Once well chosen, pulverize it in a mortar
 make like that of mastic, & add in a little dragon ’s bloodto color it and make it reddish, and others
 by heating & rubbing them. Leadsmiths say that making a lizard die in the melted il des tin makes the tinning
 become very golden. Or else putting in sal ammoniac. Small dogs Small dogs who should be water-dogs are recognized by this,
 golden. Or else putting in sal ammoniac. Small dogs Small dogs who should be water-dogs are recognized by this, that they
 in sal ammoniac. Small dogs Small dogs who should be water-dogs are recognized by this, that they have a larger muzzle
 Trees Which bear fruits quickly are aged and scarcely last. Birds Which have been fed by the rod do not whistle
 beauty, or with lake for a quickly-done red, or with dragon ’s blood for the most beauty. But one needs to
 showed no sign of the burn, taught me this. Against dogs ’ mange The English, who caress their dogs a lot
 this. Against dogs’ mange The English, who caress their d ogs a lot for taking care of their livestock, have grooms
 in water & leaving it to soak, they rub the dogs with that water, or else with water of sublimate. Enema
 covers the end of the tube with a piece of chicken gut, & one folds it back over the end, &
 it, then reload it a little more on top. Against dogs’ mange Half an ℥ of stavesacre for common dogs, &
 top. Against dogs’ mange Half an ℥ of stavesacre for common dogs , & one ℥ for big ones, as fine powder
 or by a clock spring, your invention will be effected. Turtles The males have the shell overturned at the end near
 shield are later in bearing fruit than those by cleft. Nightingale It is necessary that the iron wire of its cage
 kept a little bit cold because of it, it engenders worms in it. Nightingale It needs to have a cage made
 bit cold because of it, it engenders worms in it. Nightingale It needs to have a cage made like a barn,
 have a cage made like a barn, like those for calendras , doubled with green cloth, because it fears the cold.
 is put in the cage, one needs to give it ants with soil at the bottom of the cage, to make
 it accustomed to pecking puys luy, and give it chopped sheep ’s heart & immediately some eggs & mealworms. Fountain maker
 give it chopped sheep’s heart & immediately some eggs & mealworms . Fountain maker As you will see below in the
 of fountains s resists as much as any stucco. Catching nightingales See the 15th folio after this For trapping them, one
 like the best, & the season of their pleasure. The nightingale , as long as it sings, maintains a territory for
 as if searching the ground for something. And taking some worms which come from old meal or from beneath kneading troughs
 meal or from beneath kneading troughs or mills, which the nightingale is fond of, put some on your hat attached with
 make a hole in the ground & put in some worms and your device of little crossed sticks. It will be
 it can go see what you have done, and seeing worms , it will enter. Some sell nightingales on trees. The
 have done, and seeing worms, it will enter. Some sell nightingales on trees. The coolness of the evening and the morning,
 lack of crocum ferri, is exce good for gold. The snakes or lizards you want to mold should not be kept
 crocum ferri, is exce good for gold. The snakes or lizards you want to mold should not be kept for a
 to press it promptly with iron presses. The shell of crabs & crayfish are awkward to burn, & there is a
 it promptly with iron presses. The shell of crabs & crayfish are awkward to burn, & there is a proper fashion
 burn, & there is a proper fashion of molding them. Rats & birds can be molded, and the feet are awkward
 there is a proper fashion of molding them. Rats & birds can be molded, and the feet are awkward to extract
 them & pass them finely through a sieve. The little turtles , having just come out of the egg, are very
 cooking you use it, the sooner it will set. Catching lizards and snakes Take a stick and attach a string at
 use it, the sooner it will set. Catching lizards and snakes Take a stick and attach a string at the end
 end. And there being two or three to distract the lizard by whistling, approach the eyelet toward its neck, and when
 its neck, and when its head is inside, pull. The lizard is more tedious to catch by hand than the snake
 lizard is more tedious to catch by hand than the snake & bites without letting go & grips like pincers. Snakes
 snake & bites without letting go & grips like pincers. Snakes can be caught by hand, provided that it is covered
 by a thick woollen cloth, for the teeth of the snake stay in the cloth & cannot pierce like they would
 aseurés azure eyes. They hardly ever bite in water, which crayfish catchers experience. The sand mixture is of two parts of
 the core be of the same material. And if the snake or the animal is curved or folded, one ought to
 the mouth, which are better in boxwood or bone of hart . Wax for molding - As the wax is melted,
 blast-pipes be 4 fingers above the sole of the forge. Snakes for molding When you take them for molding, if it
 or in a glass bottle. And give them any live frog or other little live animal, for they do not eat
 eating seven or eight days, once it has devoured some frog . It can swallow three or four of them, one
 fresh as if it were alive. It can keep a frog engulfed for two to three hours & renders it up
 two to three hours & renders it up completely alive. Toad If by chance you want to mold this vile animal,
 cover it as if you wanted to bury it. A frog is not so beautiful molded because it has lively skin,
 inside, & then on the cotton some melted wax. Killing snakes for molding Some put a drop of aquafortis in the
 of good vinegar & some eau-de-vie. And do thus with lizards & other similar beasts. If you want to keep them,
 for touching water, and you will have a nice work. Snakes When they feel taken, they hardly bite & do not
 have the power to harm, unless they are really big snakes . The main thing is to keep from being bitten
 the venom and nothing else. It is the same with toad ’s venom, which I have seen experimented. In three, it
 off, which is appropriate for anointing the hair of a butterfly or similar thing, for this oil is instantly dry &
 of fine lead for one pound. I made plants & snakes just like nature. S I cast tin almost red, and
 with some small bristle brushes, one rubs the molded ework. Crab and crayfish These are the hardest to mold, & whoever
 small bristle brushes, one rubs the molded ework. Crab and crayfish These are the hardest to mold, & whoever molds them
 molds them well will mold many other very delicate things. Lizards When one takes them with two fingers from the sides
 they have changed skin, they are more beautiful. The small lizards that one takes in the summer, the size of small
 that one takes in the summer, the size of small female lizards , grey on the back & green on the belly,
 or other metal, because they have rougher scales than the female lizards & show better. like pincers Composition of sand Once everything
 them or keep them a long time, give them live frogs & not dead ones to eat. For if you keep
 piercing it, it would draw back & spoil the mold. Water snakes hardly bite. to cast, make him take through the mouth
 if it sheds, or of the filth, or of the lice , like lizards have, and then arrange it thus. Now,
 sheds, or of the filth, or of the lice, like lizards have, and then arrange it thus. Now, put enough in
 the first time, it pushes in the skin of the snake , and by taking the point out, it replaces the
 to give to the mold, which will be for a common snake as thick as two thumbs, in order that when you
 be pointed on both ends. Once placed thus, plant your snake on the slab of earth, & arrange the head first
 ad be more careful when uncovering the throat of the lizard than with the snake, for the lizard has large jaws
 when uncovering the throat of the lizard than with the snake , for the lizard has large jaws & large bones
 throat of the lizard than with the snake, for the lizard has large jaws & large bones that are not malleable
 on top & wipe each part, by wiping with tiny hog bristle brushes, slightly moistened by the end with a little
 water or else reheat it before opening it, as for crabs . If, after both halves of the noyau have made
 the molds, &c Note about everything above |-| If your snake has been without eating for a long time, it happens
 set, it ends up coming out such that between the snake and animal there is a line of distance D, in
 one. Animal after release If, by chance, you gave your snake such a writhing shape that the place of the belly
 all your material. You can pull really strongly the molded snake , because it is soft & malleable & obedient, &
 & then put them in your tempered sand mold, like snakes . For which one needs no release, for while the
 for bouquets, the sand be not as thick as for snakes because, if it were thick, it would crush the flower.
 the gold needs to be passed with ciment real. Molding snakes in all weather aulcu Because in the winter they hide
 manure. Others make several molds in summer, because with one snake , you can make four or five. And others mold
 make four or five. And others mold lengthwise a natural snake , without it being in a writhing shape, with common
 they cast it in wax. In that way they have snakes that they can twist as they like, and then they
 them in metal, as is said. If, in twisting the snake from wax, some feature becomes undone, you can repair it
 leather thick new leather. Others, parings of the feet of field mice . Others, melted common salt alone, or melted with saltpeter.
 & shape of clay, as you have done for the snakes , in the form of a mandore in such a
 wetted your wetted sand, much thinner than the one for snakes , in the mandore. And the sooner the better, in
 water among the common than you would do for the snakes . And when you will make sand especially for your
 passages by which the quicksilver can easily exit, like a bird or a snake, one can indeed put in it some
 the quicksilver can easily exit, like a bird or a snake , one can indeed put in it some quicksilver pou
 Medals mold in such a way very neatly. Blood of snakes If you need to cut some snake inside the mold
 neatly. Blood of snakes If you need to cut some snake inside the mold to burn it, cut it far from
 same quicksilver & would remove the impressions from your mold. Snails Those which are found in the sea & similarly those
 found in the sea & similarly those in which certain small crabs dwell are very beautiful for grottos, if they are stripped
 fine gold Cast with your aforesaid sand your animal and lizard or other thing with billon silver, & it will come
 sheets of gemstone foils molded in a hollow form for lizards , &c. Sand for casting in gold Take common sand
 & you can throw in a branch of wormseed. Il Nightingale One needs for the cage, made like those for larks
 IlNightingale One needs for the cage, made like those for larks like a barn & lined with green fabric, to be
 takes much delight in this, & mix in it some ants . You can carry an anthill with its earth in
 when you want them, should you take pleasure in feeding nightingales . When you have taken it, it is fat &
 put in its beak with a small pointed stick some mutton heart or other delicate flesh, chopped up not too finely,
 could add amongst the meat & the egg some live mealworms , for it is very fond of them. Crocum ferri
 be quite red. Arranging various animals When you uncover some female lizards writhing while biting each other, & which is the most
 animal without spoiling anything, which is a secret. One arranges snakes bound together in embraces of love, but that is when
 when they are small. Flower in the mouth of the snake If you want to put in the mouth of the
 If you want to put in the mouth of the snake some flower q or some branch of a plant which
 & tallow are mixed, the work is all the better. Crayfish & other small animals can easily be molded hollow for
 great works of the silver from the metallic mass like snakes & similar things when it starts to melt. But And
 you will be able to repair it. The bodies of butterflies and plants that have a stem & leaves which are
 needs the mold to be freshly molded & not dry. Spider ’s web It comes undone in water & thus cannot
 thus cannot be molded en noyau, but one casts the spider and then one draws the drawn threads between the grass
 forge. A means to make the gate for small female lizards Because you always have to make the gate by the
 well. The principal thing is that the ears of the snake come out well-molded. Your gate must be very thin at
 All plaster molds, alone or mixed, release in it. Secret Vipers and snakes I molded a viper, which, for casting, is
 molds, alone or mixed, release in it. Secret Vipers and snakes I molded a viper, which, for casting, is more appropriate
 release in it. Secret Vipers and snakes I molded a viper , which, for casting, is more appropriate than any other
 viper, which, for casting, is more appropriate than any other snake because it has scales beautiful & very visible on all
 the snout reddish, tending toward incarnadine, & snubbed like the horned asp or like un the top of a pig's snout, big
 the horned asp or like un the top of a pig 's snout, big jowls, the eyes very close to the
 in the throat, a tube of flesh, made like a dog ’s penis, from which comes its stinger. Other snakes have
 like a dog’s penis, from which comes its stinger. Other snakes have a double row of teeth. If you want cut
 of teeth. If you want cut the to mold the snakes with the mouth open, you must cut off the head
 leave it inside, for it will not be released. Molding turtles It is a matter different from the casting of snakes,
 turtles It is a matter different from the casting of snakes , & plants, and flowers because the cavities that are
 excellent German working thus. Having in my presence cast a little lizard with an alloy of teston, he made a greyish noi
 bullitoyre, composed of salt & tartar, & covered all his lizard with it. Then, he put it between the live of
 charcoals of his forge & blew a little. When the lizard was red, he took it out, let it cool, then
 color according to a natural branch that you will have. Viper color It is the most beautiful snake that can be molded,
 you will have. Viper color It is the most beautiful snake that can be molded, because it has very beautiful scales,
 Put a bit of metalline in your tin & your lizard will resemble silver. Molded roses They are awkward to mold
 & withstand the tempered sand. The same is done with flies , with pansies & similar delicate things, with flowers from
 taken out. And they always remain thus, as much for snakes , as birds and other things. But it is necessary
 And they always remain thus, as much for snakes, as birds and other things. But it is necessary that they be
 & lumpy, to draw out the fury of the metal. Spider molded on a leaf The very big ones usually have
 with wheat oil. Kill them in vinegar & urine, like snakes &, or in eau-de-vie, and then shape them on a
 hair of cloth waste, having anointed them with a with fish glue or similar. Their true color is of vinegar &
 slab, place on it your vine leaf, and the dead spider in the middle, & pierce with a point of iron
 point of iron or latten wire the middle of the spider ’s body & the leaf together. Next, place diagonally small
 thing with the end of the small cornicles of the spider . Return 🜊 To make the gate for the spider
 the spider. Return 🜊 To make the gate for the spider on the leaf and to prevent the sand from covering
 the leaf and to prevent the sand from covering the spider from underneath the belly, furnish the end of the tail
 in the leaf which will be the gate of the spider . 🜊 Once the wax is cool, scrape the excess
 the second cast. Animals dried in an oven Small s cats are skinned and one removes their eyes & all their
 a painted tongue, horns, wings & similar fancies. Thus for rats & all animals. which, surrounding the fingers of the paws,
 paws, stick in the jacket of clay. For reddening live crayfish , which will seem boiled Rub them in quite good
 served as cooked & will move around. Molding a single spider One needs to plant it on the clay slab, as
 your first cast; & once it has set, uncover the spider up to half its legs, then make the second cast.
 the second cast. In order The hairy feet of large spiders , like any animal hair, does not mold well if
 once, because there will be nothing to burn. Molding a crab It is a secret and a masterpiece to mold it
 one cast like plants, but rather in two casts like snakes that release well, one removes this crust, not with quicksilver,
 enough, reheat until it is. It is painted like a crayfish . Know that For opening the mold, there is no
 soak it, for once reheated, it will open by itself. Stag beetle It is as difficult to burn as a crab, therefore
 Stag beetle It is as difficult to burn as a crab , therefore do for it as you did for the
 crab, therefore do for it as you did for the crab . For molding thin After you have molded en noyau
 orpiment & little grains of diverse colors. For teaching a dog ei well It is necessary to keep it tied up,
 & weighty, carries more. From this alloy, I cast a large lizard like a natural one. In thick things, if which keep
 the sand quite thinly & molded out of it a very small female lizard , which molded very neatly & delicately & very finely.
 This is the wax goldsmiths use for modeling. Feet of smalls female lizards for gold and silver Because the feet of these, which
 come out well. At the end of the nails of large lizards , place make on each one a little circle of
 crust or mold on the mold. + When you mold small female lizards and you want to uncover the part first molded, begin
 with some wax. Various animals entwined You can entwine a snake entwine with a lizard, one biting the other, or a
 animals entwined You can entwine a snake entwine with a lizard , one biting the other, or a snake that eats
 entwine with a lizard, one biting the other, or a snake that eats a frog or a wall lizard s &
 one biting the other, or a snake that eats a frog or a wall lizard s & suchlike. But because these
 other, or a snake that eats a frog or a wall lizard s & suchlike. But because these entwinings can in no
 & leave the rest to burn. And to keep a wall lizard , which is small, in the mouth of the snake,
 wall lizard, which is small, in the mouth of the snake , which is raised & needs to be supported in
 supported in the air, po, because the head of the snake is posed raised, put underneath the wall lizard se an
 head of the snake is posed raised, put underneath the wall lizard se an elevation of earth suited to support it. And
 the simple & delicate parts in the middle of the lizard ’s feet, the nails of which you will enter into
 thin s slabs of wax at the end of the lizard ’s legs. But, if it is a small wall lizard,
 end of the lizard’s legs. But, if it is a small wall lizard , lightly cover with wax the entire bottom of the
 the forge, & make sure it is well dry. Grind spider One of the principal things for the cast is to
 to make a gate of wax for the feet of lizards & delicate things like this. When you have molded an
 humid place until you have done it. Vine leaf and small frog Take vine leaves to mold as they are in growth,
 verd de terre. You can cast on the leaf a spider or frog & whatever you will like. Casting in ☼
 terre. You can cast on the leaf a spider or frog & whatever you will like. Casting in ☼ Take a
 iron, and one covers it with a cloth soaked in pig fat mixed with saltpeter or sal ammoniac, to keep it
 your sand thicker for flat medals & solids than for lizards & fine things. Your sand having set, clean & scrape
 thing that is inside is burnt, like with molds of crayfish , crabs, stag beetles, portraits & pieces of sulfured black
 that is inside is burnt, like with molds of crayfish, crabs , stag beetles, portraits & pieces of sulfured black wax,
 is inside is burnt, like with molds of crayfish, crabs, stag beetles , portraits & pieces of sulfured black wax, which do
 or another thing that is subject to coming off, like crayfish legs or similar things. And if the sand is, by
 can be cast in medals, but not in plants & lizards & very fine things if it is not alloyed. A
 new. The alloy that I have put in use for lizards & snakes is two ℥ of fine tin for one
 alloy that I have put in use for lizards & snakes is two ℥ of fine tin for one lb of
 + Note that if you want to cast them in cuttlefish bone, they ought not to be very hot because they
 not to be very hot because they will burn the cuttlefish bone. Test for this effect with paper. If it turns
 the mold & blowing inside, it stays neat. To make snakes with wax, or another thing to fix on a candle,
 one go without turning around in the folds of the snake . etch on silver & copper with aquafortis. With this
 But for flowers & what should burn, yes. Molding a crayfish If some little thing is missing from it, you can
 it with goldsmith’s cement, because it can be painted. The crayfish is one of the most fanciful to mold, but also
 you can burn it with a hot iron on the crayfish , so that no one sees it. As for animals
 and this is something which can be repaired. If your crayfish has eggs, which are delicate and which would be awkward
 thin. Do not forget to rub with eau-de-vie before molding. Stag beetles , crayfish & crabs are molded in the same fashion.
 not forget to rub with eau-de-vie before molding. Stag beetles, crayfish & crabs are molded in the same fashion. If your
 to rub with eau-de-vie before molding. Stag beetles, crayfish & crabs are molded in the same fashion. If your crayfish a
 & crabs are molded in the same fashion. If your crayfish a d has no eggs, mold the back on top
 body, but the legs cannot. And to do it well, crayfish are already fanciful enough to mold without looking for the
 looking for the hollow; this ought to be reserved for turtles . When you open your mold, you will find the
 turtles. When you open your mold, you will find the crayfish with white bones, but not in powder. And without opening
 vermilion, & yellow ocher, and white. Having therefore let your crayfish dry a little in the sun or on its own,
 of yellow potter’s earth, like for other figures, lay your crayfish on top, the s back on top on the bottom,
 that it can be well cleaned. Lastly, having rubbed the crayfish with eau-de-vie, cast your sand. Having set, uncover the back
 cast your sand. Having set, uncover the back of the crayfish , the head & the eyes & its little pincers,
 way that they do not pass the belly of the crayfish , Aultr and that, placing them, they sit well on
 is massive. are not uncovered as much. But because the crayfish is awkward to burn & clean, one needs to uncover
 between the legs and the little pincers. Then, rub the crayfish with eau-de-vie. And make your second cast, having flattened the
 forget to put crocum among your sand when you mold crayfish , for one needs to reheat strongly, & the crocum
 to reheat strongly, & the crocum withstands marvelously. Molding a crab & a crayfish, it is all the same. When you
 & the crocum withstands marvelously. Molding a crab & a crayfish , it is all the same. When you have uncovered
 it is all the same. When you have uncovered your crayfish on one side, only delay making the seond cast as
 making the seond cast as little you can, for el crayfish dry se out. It is not just about uncovering the
 dry se out. It is not just about uncovering the crayfish well, in such a way that you see an entire
 in which you uncover, releases well, for even if the crayfish were well burned, you despoui would not be able to
 secure with wax the two little hairy horns of the crayfish & other things which are not en despoui secured at
 things which are not en despoui secured at all. Molding grasshoppers and things too thin If you have a written paper
 there is, & for fortifying the wings of either a butterfly or a grasshopper, or some delicate part of an animal
 for fortifying the wings of either a butterfly or a grasshopper , or some delicate part of an animal to which
 when the animal can be removed without burning, like a toad , which can well be molded hollow like all thick
 like a very thick mortar. Mix in it about half horse dung, & then have it beaten well. Next, mix in
 your mold as soon as the lute is placed. Molding turtles The water turtle is more beautiful to mold because it
 as soon as the lute is placed. Molding turtles The water turtle is more beautiful to mold because it has prettier scales
 mold because it has prettier scales & straight legs. And those of the garrigue have crooked ones. They are of long life; getting ready
 swallow some vinegar mixed with eau-de-vie or urine, as for snakes . One needs to mold them in several pieces, &
 out better hollow, because their great thickness corrupts the mold. Those from water are more vigorous. Those of the garrigue are thinner, slower
 thickness corrupts the mold. Those from water are more vigorous. Those of the garrigue are thinner, slower & more sleepy. If you scratch those
 garrigue are thinner, slower & more sleepy. If you scratch those of the water on their shells, however sleepy they are, they move. Those
 water on their shells, however sleepy they are, they move. Those of the garrigue do not. They die rather quickly in vinegar mixed with
 away the finest, which is on top, then reheat it. Toad Once molded, it can be removed without burning it, because
 nothing inside. Carcanets made à jour They are molded like crayfish en noyau, first on one side, that which is hollow
 reason, one makes them with leaves & sheets of silver. Turtles Those of water are more beautiful & easier to mold
 one makes them with leaves & sheets of silver. Turtles Those of water are more beautiful & easier to mold than those, being
 tail q and legs straighter & better to release than those of the garrigue , which are lean, wrinkled & well ensconced in their
 top shell cannot be molded well in one piece like those of the water . Therefore Thus, you will mold their top shell in
 need. But, note that if you want to release your turtle from the mold without burning it, it needs to be
 some clay, fill up all the empty space around the turtle , that is to say what is between the two
 pit in the clay slab to adapt them there. Your turtle When they are better mortified & rested two or three
 on the middle of e the the back of the turtle , as you see, & at the widest place, divide
 shells or that are hard or are not malleable, like snakes & lizards, want to be oiled to release. Things that
 that are hard or are not malleable, like snakes & lizards , want to be oiled to release. Things that are
 which otherwise would be refused. Once your half of the turtle is thus desp molded, separate it, with its half mold,
 half mold will consist of more than half of the turtle , cut & pare down smoothly the excess, & clean
 halfway, two notches, like for other molds, and return your turtle to its slab as it was, & secure its two
 half mold, & its notches, and the shell of the turtle , & having also showered it with eau-de-vie, heat your
 in order that when uncovering afterward the underneath of the turtle , they are not undone. Next, uncover the side of
 of the throat, in the way that you uncover a crayfish , which is the most difficult to mold of the
 which are molded in two halves. You can mold the turtle with one piece for each side, but one would need
 that is in it would not be released. Inquire A Cuttlefish bone One ought not to cast either tin or lead
 better yet, wet it well in water. Next, use small hog bristle brushes, a bit of iron wire, &c. When the
 with your little pincers by the tail of iron. Molding turtles This is the continuation of the second preceding leaf. When
 have well uncovered the part of the belly of the turtle , the underneath of the throat & of the legs,
 have in their shell between the neck & the shoulders. Those of the water do not have ones as deep as those of the
 of the water do not have ones as deep as those of the garrigue , which are leaner. And among these, there are some
 already of two pieces, which contains the back of the turtle . And to mold its belly, one needs to divide
 melted wax at the end of the nails of the turtles to make the vent. Your belly shell molded and uncovered,
 around the shell of the spine, and make sure that turtle of the tail of the turtle stays between these two
 and make sure that turtle of the tail of the turtle stays between these two strings. This is to make the
 after, but because it is neighboring the shoulder of the turtles , which are deeply ensconced, it is sometimes awkward. Thus,
 a half of common salt. Molding the foot of the bittern , or of the eagle, or of other birds for
 salt. Molding the foot of the bittern, or of the eagle , or of other birds for the foot of saltcellars
 Thus it will quickly be colored & made fine. Molding turtles Next, reassemble the parts of your mold and clamp carefully
 you wanted to mold hollow, because you could mold your turtle in two pieces and burn it inside, as with other
 animals, and it would be done quickly. But since the turtle is massive & would be weighty if it is not
 rendering it very soft Take sublimate, quicklime, soap from Venice, horse dung, a little less sublimate than the others. Wet all
 of the fine alloy, like old douzains are. Molding a fly Large flies can be molded & g made by casting.
 the fine alloy, like old douzains are. Molding a fly Large flies can be molded & g made by casting. But one
 gives them a little thickness. The same is done to butterflies , cicadas, grasshoppers & similar things. But to cast them
 them a little thickness. The same is done to butterflies, cicadas , grasshoppers & similar things. But to cast them more
 a little thickness. The same is done to butterflies, cicadas, grasshoppers & similar things. But to cast them more easily, one
 tempered sand, weighing down their tops, would change their form. Bat They have very thin wings, & if they are large
 Various alloys of tin and lead For hollow things like turtles , half fine lead and half tin. For flowers, almost
 of fine tin and two ℥ of fine lead. For lizards that are as thick as one or two fingers, almost
 gate when the mold is in several pieces, like a turtle , and this is done in order that the core
 is quite dry & the mold moderately hot. For these turtles that have a large size & enough thickness, it is
 do not remove it until you have completely repaired the turtle , for you will use this earth as cement if
 is not quenched to make something lumpy. For these two turtles & hollow things that presuppose being large enough, cast your
 half fine tin. There is more work in molding a turtle than for twelve molds of flowers. If there is some
 well with a press. And to make the scales of turtles or other animals, you can make some little small chisels
 the fashion of a gouge or the scale of a snake & lizard, and others on a file to make the
 of a gouge or the scale of a snake & lizard , and others on a file to make the curly
 a file to make the curly & lumpy bits. The turtles which are not molded hollow do not have as much
 form to the legs of a small animal, like a fly & suchlike. It is also excellent for coloring false white
 is also excellent for coloring false white stones. Molding a rat The hairs of its whiskers would be awkward to come
 made of scaly circles, nearly like the one of a lizard , & in order that the hair does not hinder
 in order that it appears in the cast. On a small mouse , you can even put some common oil to lower
 to lower the hair. And before molding these animals (except snakes & lizards), let them rest remain dead one or two
 the hair. And before molding these animals (except snakes & lizards ), let them rest remain dead one or two days
 peas, stripped of their skin & shell. Some make the rat shed, others anoint it with olive oil, which is amiable,
 scarcely uses it, only to give some feature to a fly foot or under a wing to keep them rigid. Others
 to open the mold until it is reheated & the rat burned. + The rat, because it is thick, comes out
 until it is reheated & the rat burned. + The rat , because it is thick, comes out better being hollow
 thick, comes out better being hollow if it is a big rat . A mouse molds better, because it has shorter hair.
 better being hollow if it is a big rat. A mouse molds better, because it has shorter hair. It is not
 mold well an animal that has biggish bones, like a bird or rat, without opening the mold to clean it well,
 an animal that has biggish bones, like a bird or rat , without opening the mold to clean it well, for
 than wheat oil, because it is more amiable. If the rat is big, it is good to remove its entrails, or,
 that need it. But one reinforces the little legs of flies & other small animals with wheat oil to strengthen them
 the pieces to join them & one glues them with fish glue that has been a little tempered & thickly melted.
 have something delicate to join to the flower, like a fly or something similar, fish glue is singular for it &
 join to the flower, like a fly or something similar, fish glue is singular for it & holds very well, fixing
 noyau. Very light and hollow work of gold Cast a lizard or any medal you like in base silver, like billon.
 without damaging the gold, so that you will have a lizard hollow to its nails, or any other work, so light
 you smooth, you add relief to a line. Molding a fly Take the largest vo flies that go into pantries, which
 add relief to a line. Molding a fly Take the largest vo flies that go into pantries, which are not hairy, if it
 take at all. For unction, a tallow is too harsh, pork fat is too soft, and butter is the most excellent
 did not come out in tin. The rest of the fly came out well, and especially the bouquet of sage, which
 and transparent. One needs to make the gate for the fly from the bottom in order with melted wax, adapted with
 with the iron point, as you know, to which the fly attaches itself, & then the wax, while melting, serves as
 the wax, while melting, serves as a gate for the fly . + If some flaw happens to the wings of
 + If some flaw happens to the wings of your fly , beat some tin very thin, &or some gold or
 apply it with your small pincers & glue it with fish glue, prepared as put below. And before, heat lightly your
 means of goldsmiths for molding hollow They mold in two cuttlefish bones their animal or other work that they have either
 in lead. Once it is well imprinted in the two cuttlefish bones, they place between these two bones a paper, &
 it is a sign that the rest is well burned. Flies They mold better on a single leaf than n on
 the cast is made better. Take heed when taking the fly to not break the legs & to not let it
 fall off. And if this happens to you, glue with fish glue the same legs and with wax, or fashion some
 same legs and with wax, or fashion some out of swine bristle or spinet string. Fix the leaf on the clay
 leaf on the clay slab with two points, and the fly with one point in the middle of the body, &
 in the blowing with the wind as vapor. Molding a bird One needs to give it its shape. And to do
 slab, and hide & sink within it half the said bird , in order that it only shows one leg &
 usually remain too weak to support the mass of a solid bird . And for this reason, one adapts an iron wire
 v greenish black, in the same way that black of ox foot bone looks bluish. And thus, by judgment & discretion,
 it all. Otherwise, it would look like a joined piece. Fish glue Beat it very fine & thin on a well-cleaned
 you mold some animal that should be burned you, like crayfish , you cannot open it to clean it, & make
 Delicate work of gold and of silver One can make flies from it by hand without casting, & the wings &
 melt. And the work of gold can be enameled. Catching crayfish Attach to the tip of a stick some liver or
 tip of a stick some liver or lung of a cow or sheep, & with a small string you make a
 a stick some liver or lung of a cow or sheep , & with a small string you make a basket
 the tip of the said stick. Put in water where crayfish eat, & they will quickly come to accumulate on the
 back into the water will fall into the basket. Catching passerines If they sleep in straw, like they usually do, close
 necessary that the night be dark & without ☾. Catching birds In winter, when the birds have molted, skin them &
 dark & without ☾. Catching birds In winter, when the birds have molted, skin them & fill them with stuffing cloth
 this is done because, before they would be dried, the fly would get into their eyes and make worms. In winter
 dried, the fly would get into their eyes and make worms . In winter they are prepared better & dry by
 winter, & in summer one plants them well with earth. Bittern foot To mold it, it is better to spread the
 some amongst the water in which you temper your sand. Crayfish The hairy cornicles that it has under its beak coe
 And while repairing, wet & rub with your very small hog bristle brushes. Gate When you make the gate of some
 you make the gate of some delicate animal, like a snake , make it come from the side of the belly
 to put it in ingots before melting it for casting lizards & animals, for it comes out better. I molded some
 molded some as neat as the principal, such as a little viper of silver, and I made the alloy out of 4
 two halves of the molds than when it is mixed. Dragon ’s blood It can be imitated with lake, which surpasses
 on gold or silver. Tempered in varnish, it dies. Repairing snakes and lizards You could well make some puncheons according to
 or silver. Tempered in varnish, it dies. Repairing snakes and lizards You could well make some puncheons according to the form
 pieces points of iron or steel wire, & glue with fish glue, & then cover it all with gray or black
 some lime mortar, for this attracts & gathers the lead. Fly wings In order that they come out better, put from
 wax, for this is what makes the gate. Joining some fly wings, or similar They are joined with fish glue mixed
 Joining some fly wings, or similar They are joined with fish glue mixed with eau-de-vie over slow fire, heating also the
 words of the ancient Hebrews quoted by Josephus. As the hen carefully searches the garbage thrown out of a house for
 a crumb or a grain that she divides among her chicks , thus one distributes to orphans that which has been
 not blow it up. Some use little bells worn by oxen or mules on a peasant door. Others load two pistol
 it up. Some use little bells worn by oxen or mules on a peasant door. Others load two pistol barrels &,
 or strap hinge of the door. List of processes Molding turtles Furry animals Birds Leaf of a vine - put Of
 of the door. List of processes Molding turtles Furry animals Birds Leaf of a vine - put Of strawberries Molding diverse
 a bouquet Rose carnations Molding hollow Hollow gilded silver Molding crab - put + Crayfish put and seen Grasshoppers Barbels Butterflies
 Molding hollow Hollow gilded silver Molding crab - put + Crayfish put and seen Grasshoppers Barbels Butterflies Flies Bats Enameling very
 silver Molding crab - put + Crayfish put and seen Grasshoppers Barbels Butterflies Flies Bats Enameling very thin gold Molding in
 Molding crab - put + Crayfish put and seen Grasshoppers Barbels Butterflies Flies Bats Enameling very thin gold Molding in sugar
 crab - put + Crayfish put and seen Grasshoppers Barbels Butterflies Flies Bats Enameling very thin gold Molding in sugar Molding
 - put + Crayfish put and seen Grasshoppers Barbels Butterflies Flies Bats Enameling very thin gold Molding in sugar Molding fish
 put + Crayfish put and seen Grasshoppers Barbels Butterflies Flies Bats Enameling very thin gold Molding in sugar Molding fish Casting
 Flies Bats Enameling very thin gold Molding in sugar Molding fish Casting in sulfur - put Carton + P Wax put
 of animals from metal + Wheat oil put and seen Stag beetle Foot of a bittern molded Thickness of a medal Very
 Wheat oil put and seen Stag beetle Foot of a bittern molded Thickness of a medal Very hard wax Molding a
