 authore, Romae 1554 Les Annales de Normandie For loosening the belly Prunes of Saint Antonin, & if you like you want
 sugar &, if one wants, a little cinnamon for the stomach . Or else marshmallow root in a chicken broth. The
 with water & taking it in the morning loosens the belly . Books to recover The chronicles of Sigebert Ruffinus IreniusIn
 to the varnish, which needs to be applied with the finger in order to spread it thinner and less thick, for
 if it is fatty when you handle it with a finger , it is ready. And for one lb of lavender
 size of a walnut of black pitch & a double handful of grains of wheat, without removing the garlic & onions,
 will represent you the right way up but with your face quite large & the hairs of your beard as thick
 way up but with your face quite large & the hairs of your beard as thick as string & will represent a nipple as
 your beard as thick as string & will represent a nipple as large as a plate, and women can see the
 as large as a plate, and women can see the secret places that they do not want to show to surgeons. It
 touch le lieu the eye of the representation with your finger , another finger will come against yours. You will make
 lieu the eye of the representation with your finger, another finger will come against yours. You will make a light at
 a hole at the lower one, as wide as your little finger , perfectly round, from one side to the other. Then
 the other end of the cannule is held with the hand , because it is not hot. When the cannule is
 as do sap-green & saffron. Fish glue or isinglass and mouth glue It is made from codfish skin, boiled rather than
 be strongly beaten, then soaked gently in barely boiling water. Mouth glue is made of parchment scrapings and one uses it
 for glueing paper or similar things, wetting it with the mouth . One beats it and soaks it in in eau-de-vie
 for one dose. Excellent cure against the suffocation of the matrix . For relieving the pain of G. Take half a
 yellow marcasite, half an ounce of storax, 4 lb of urine , incorporate everything well together, little by little, in a
 the fumes do not exhale. Next distil the it is urine , imbibed & separated by inclination, in an alembic, well-luted
 if it is too coarse. Try it, therefore, on the fingernail or the oil palette. If it happens to be sandy,
 on a touchstone. For getting rid of the redness of eyes or bruising Make two small thin slices of raw mutton
 mutton flesh, & with a head band, apply to the eyes at night. For coating with or mat There is nothing
 This is why it does not bite easily on the nail , which is polished & fatty. But when the polish
 your plaster with water, & separate it well with your finger , and if it makes pustules, throw on top more
 powder of the said plaster & grind it with the finger until + + it makes no more pustules. Then cast
 or four small half-burnt charcoals, and blew only with my mouth . And nonetheless the thing came to redden & ignition
 of paper & press it & spread it with the finger since, if it is mixed, it will be found variegated
 between which they throw the earth, making each layer one foot thick or thereabouts, intermixing it as if S.S.S with branches
 and next fashion them on a round or oval-shaped triblet. Ears When some defluxion occurs there, one needs to be very
 according to the proverb, one ought only to touch the ear & the eye with the elbow. However, it is good
 proverb, one ought only to touch the ear & the eye with the elbow. However, it is good to put on
 only to touch the ear & the eye with the elbow . However, it is good to put on an affected
 elbow. However, it is good to put on an affected ear musked cotton, that is to say, kept in musk, for
 to say, kept in musk, for it comforts quite well. Tooth ache Some put a clove of garlic in the ear
 well. Toothache Some put a clove of garlic in the ear which is on the side where the tooth is hurting,
 in the ear which is on the side where the tooth is hurting, & within two or three hours they feel
 they feel well because of it. Others put in the nostril which is on the side of the ailing tooth green
 the nostril which is on the side of the ailing tooth green skin scraped from e the small branch of visaube,
 put at the mouth of the melt, two or three handfuls of wallwort when they want to make the melt run,
 water make an injection. For removing fine hair from the forehead Take a needle’s worth of fine silk & pass it
 time, saying that each ramming raises & gives a further thumb ’s breadth. But this is not certain for large pieces
 circle correctly with the quill & or else with the nail of your right thumb & the bent big finger. If you do not have
 with the nail of your right thumb & the bent big finger . If you do not have a ruler, fold paper
 gives a clyster. It is true that it always causes wind at the end. For making millas It is necessary to
 commonly sold at x or twelve lb. For whitening the face Pestle puffball in cistern water, & no other, & wash
 starch & to use it would be even better. Against winds , colic, &c Sap squeezed or water distilled from orange
 the windy colic. Candied peel, too, is excellent for the winds of the belly . And to make a trial of it, having poured
 Candied peel, too, is excellent for the winds of the belly . And to make a trial of it, having poured
 the centers well dusted with sugar. And next drink one finger of wine. And apart from being nourishing, it makes a
 wine. And apart from being nourishing, it makes a good stomach . Gunner As for small cannons which are not loaded
 violence. Cannon ball, weighing 40 lb, having 12 lines, king's foot . A little too big, see the one of that
 iron pegs one pan long & as thick as a finger which should have their point like a wimble gimlet, &
 is larger, and let the strip be four or five fingers wide. Have it well sewn in such a way that
 a gut through lwhich a stick as thick as a finger can pass. Fill it completely with good This one is
 which is put with it, in order that on the face or places where the powder will have its effect, the
 or places where the powder will have its effect, the wounds will be all the worse for it. The best arquebus
 which comes out of it by the width of one finger . You will fill it with good powder, pestled in
 To throw your grenade, take it bravely & in one hand & with the other give fire to your pipe with
 to make a level ground or a platform of four fingers or half a foot thick, and one sets them into
 ground or a platform of four fingers or half a foot thick, and one sets them into the earth. The platform
 into the earth. The platform is five or six cano feet larger than the wheels of the cannon on each side
 end to the other. The trunnions are commonly situated one foot from the ring of the middle, from toward the edge
 cold molds, which they keep joined & tight between their knees . And soon after, they open the molds so that
 is not in saulmon, but in lattes of around an arm's length & three fingers' width. It is transported to Lyon,
 but in lattes of around an arm's length & three fingers' width. It is transported to Lyon, and from this, the
 desgrusoue desgrusouer with a rope, as thick rope as the little finger , & lean it firmly on the crossbar to secure
 wheel, they guide the sharp edge of the esgrusouer by hand s toward the edge of the round hollow, & gently
 strong branches, having plowed it, put at each foot two handfuls of pigeon dung. Colored waters Distilled urine, distilled vinegar and
 at each foot two handfuls of pigeon dung. Colored waters Distilled urine , distilled vinegar and eau-de-vie take on a cerulean and
 would melt. But one rubs them with color with the finger . Painter Scribes achieve darkening of lake & other colors
 # Gold, silver, copper, latten, iron. Knife for cutting the nose or a finger This is a well-furbished knife, nailed through
 copper, latten, iron. Knife for cutting the nose or a finger This is a well-furbished knife, nailed through the middle in
 inside the handle. And when you want to cut the nose or a finger, pretend to sharpen your knife on the
 And when you want to cut the nose or a finger , pretend to sharpen your knife on the thigh and,
 or a finger, pretend to sharpen your knife on the thigh and, while while doing this, turn the knife deftly. &
 with the notch, which you will cover l with one finger , will come into your hand, and you will place
 will cover l with one finger, will come into your hand , and you will place the notch, colored with brazilwood
 colored with brazilwood rosette or black cherry juice, upon the nose . The conjuror ought not to amuse himself by watching
 of good hocus-pocus words so that they look at his face & not at his hands. X For relighting an extinguished
 that they look at his face & not at his hands . X For relighting an extinguished candle between your hands
 his hands. X For relighting an extinguished candle between your hands without blowing X Take a small stick of well dried
 a toothpick, & la m put one end between your index finger & middle finger and clasp both your hands, fingers well
 la m put one end between your index finger & middle finger and clasp both your hands, fingers well joined, and pass
 your index finger & middle finger and clasp both your hands , fingers well joined, and pass them deftly around the
 index finger & middle finger and clasp both your hands, fingers well joined, and pass them deftly around the lit candle
 them, & your wicker will light, & immediately remove your hands jo thus clasped, & immediately put out the candle. And
 & immediately put out the candle. And then put your hands around it again as if you wanted to cover it,
 of the smoke that you are holding with your two palms the candle will light. Then immediately extinguish your wicker &
 someone that he has a piece of silver on his forehead Take a token or piece of silver and wet it
 silver and wet it and make it hold against your forehead . Then say to the bystander that if you put
 the bystander that if you put it thus on his forehead , he will not be able to make it fall
 not be able to make it fall without lifting his hands to it, no matter how he shakes his head. And
 his hands to it, no matter how he shakes his head . And making it seem as if you are placing
 it seem as if you are placing it on his forehead , retain it in your hand & wet your thumb
 are placing it on his forehead, retain it in your hand & wet your thumb with your saliva then press it
 his forehead, retain it in your hand & wet your thumb with your saliva then press it quite strongly on his
 it in your hand & wet your thumb with your saliva then press it quite strongly on his forehead. And thinking
 with your saliva then press it quite strongly on his forehead . And thinking he has the piece on his forehead
 his forehead. And thinking he has the piece on his forehead due to the coolness of the saliva, he will shake
 piece on his forehead due to the coolness of the saliva , he will shake his ears & will get nowhere.
 to the coolness of the saliva, he will shake his ears & will get nowhere. For making blood or wine issue
 will shake his ears & will get nowhere. For making blood or wine issue from someone’s forehead or from a wall
 get nowhere. For making blood or wine issue from someone’s forehead or from a wall Take a funnel or funnel of
 and blocking the hole of the spout the with your little finger , make sure that the funnel is well filled in
 through the tip, but before, you must have pressed your thumb well over the hole on the top edge, because in
 handle, you make it seem as if you pierce the forehead of someone who holds a glass in his hand, and
 the forehead of someone who holds a glass in his hand , and while you pierce, you cover what you are
 the funnel that you hold close to # # his forehead . Then removing your thumb from over the hole on
 hold close to # # his forehead. Then removing your thumb from over the hole on the top edge, the air,
 the glass. But you must make the fellow bend his head enough in order to do it well. For telling someone
 it well. For telling someone that by putting holding a finger to his forehead, you will prevent him from exiting a
 telling someone that by putting holding a finger to his forehead , you will prevent him from exiting a chamber X
 him from exiting a chamber X Make him put his arm around a bedpost or something similar, & with the same
 around a bedpost or something similar, & with the same arm , let him hold a finger to his forehead. X
 similar, & with the same arm, let him hold a finger to his forehead. X Wager someone e that walking to
 the same arm, let him hold a finger to his forehead . X Wager someone e that walking to a certain
 marked B on top. Next, holding the box with your index finger on top, you present it, and seeing only the bottom
 will take the top of the leather box with two fingers , and with the clasping it more firmly than usual,
 bottom which has returned to its previous state, holding your index finger on the rim of the box so that it does
 stick and take the measurement from the tip of his ear to the tip of his nose and show it to
 the tip of his ear to the tip of his nose and show it to him. Thus you will teach him
 in water so that it floats by two or three fingers . For making rabbits come out of a burrow Take
 as cow or morocco, somewhat thick, as tall as three fingers , sewn like the finger of a glove & large
 the finger of a glove & large enough that two fingertips can fit inside & which, at the tip, which is
 is hollow & has the thimble inside it by your little finger & ring finger, and do this with your right hand
 has the thimble inside it by your little finger & ring finger , and do this with your right hand with which
 little finger & ring finger, and do this with your right hand with which you are holding the stick. Next, you take
 place it over the hollow ball which is in your fingers , & making it seem as if you are putting
 it can be fixed with a hammer. Medicine for the stomach which heats it and unstops the liver Take Take wormwood
 Medicine for the stomach which heats it and unstops the liver Take Take wormwood powder, dissolve it in capilli veneris syrup
 in wine. Then you will be able to drink a finger of sufficiently tempered wine. This dissipates the phlegm & the
 are smooth, & swallow them without chewing. This benefits the stomach without heating the liver. Foil backings for the gemstones Once
 them without chewing. This benefits the stomach without heating the liver . Foil backings for the gemstones Once made, one ought
 & not bear enough fruit. Make small e holes, two fingers by two fingers, with a stake & put in each
 enough fruit. Make small e holes, two fingers by two fingers , with a stake & put in each two or
 with it. Next, spread over all the thickness of a thumb of havets, that is to say wheat fl chaff, in
 the glassworker who is working has a stench from his nose or his mouth la, & he breathes on the glass,
 is working has a stench from his nose or his mouth la, & he breathes on the glass, the color will
 stench from his nose or his mouth la, & he breathes on the glass, the color will not take on it.
 amber, then passed tripoli from Bretagne on it with the finger , others with a piece of leather or a cane.
 it, it needs to be soaked for one night in urine , then boiled a little in it. Sapphire One finds
 or manganese & other drugs that you know. Or in urine & distilled vinegar mixed with colors, or in the vapor
 make black. Try other colors with lye of lime. Against nose bleed and for dyeing Pestle some sorrel or lapathum acutum
 is called dragon’s blood, and apply it de to the forehead of the one who bleeds. This herb is a strong
 of the pastel woad is known when, put in the mouth , it gives a taste as of vinegar, or when
 your retort, is sufficiently far, one dour or half a foot , from the bottom grate where the charcoal is placed,
 neatly. When you work, the humid the exhalation of your breath moistens the leaf laid on the glass, & therefore it
 it. But before, it should have been kneaded between your hands to render it very uniform, for otherwise the water that
 un poco di vernice. Essendo secco, datte a secco con ditto la purpurina dove vorrette. Tanto più ne darette, sarà piu
 minium from England on top with a paintbrush or a finger . The said grated minium embellishes lead medals. Varied and
 they clean with lye because they sort them with the mouth & separate out short & broken ones. They do not
 And passing a small flat stick of ii or three fingers wide between, next they pass two hairs at each step
 and your oil will turn white. If you rub the soles of your feet with the same, you will soon feel like sleeping. Stucco
 pipe as long as the width of 4 or 5 fingers , which should be hollowed precisely according to the mouth
 righted, & do thus all the way round. For the teeth , oil of sulfur Some people whiten them with confections
 mix it well all together. And after having cleaned the teeth with a small burin, touch them lightly with a end
 there for a little while, then spit or rinse your mouth with tepid water, and reiterate two or three times. Oil
 engraved in stone & heated turns black & penetrates. For teeth Sal ammoniac i ℥, rock salt 1 ℥, alum half
 with the retort, and as soon as you touch the tooth , the tartar & blackness will go away. It is
 being heated. Against falling sickness or vertigo Hung round the neck , wear root of peony which should be picked at
 it is against dysentery, you can rub with it the temples , the hollow of the hands, & the soles of
 against dysentery, you can rub with it the temples, the hollow of the hands , & the soles of the feet with wax oil
 it the temples, the hollow of the hands, & the soles of the feet with wax oil & take one drop or two of
 little of it at a time, & se turn their back for fear of the fumes, and continue thus until everything
 end the other end, put your card three or 4 fingers away from the water that you will have put in
 fruit. And when you will have delicately picked with your hand the fruit without it being corrupted & on a warm
 blacker. When you want to print fr, take with your fingertip of the said black moderately thick, the whole plate having
 paper remains white & do not touch it with the bare hand because but with a piece of paper applied on top.
 Thus you will have to boil it in lye or urine , as already said, to clean it. The rollers must
 close place & so that none of its dung & urine should be lost, of which you will make a heap
 large glass mattras, as thick as you can, & one finger thick if it can be done, & of the capacity
 & will become like a snake, one empan & 4 fingers long, & one lb in weight, and as its wings
 occasion when you feed it with pincers, b wash your mouth with good vinegar & take some preservative & plug yourself
 they scarcely profit after one has handled it with the hand . Around Pentecost, they begin to want to climb on
 hard that one only cuts it with difficulty with a fingernail . And nevertheless, to leave its prison, elle the worm
 it begins to spin, it is as long as a ring finger & has eight feet, & coming out it is shorter
 boots, you can make rope of hay & wrap your legs in it, & the rain will never pass through. For
 porkfat, the freshest that you can, as long as the joint of the little finger & of the caliber, & put it in the pipe
 litte more than tepid. & take three or four double handfuls of fatty red earth, soak it & throw it into
 very cold. That is why ladies, wanting to color their cheeks , grind Florence lake very finely, then fill a little
 is clear. And thus they pounce the lake on their cheeks & then, with another clean cotton, they soften it. Cristallin
 quite appropriate. Verdigris and orpiment must first be ground with urine before thinning them with oil. Thus they are beautiful &
 with which they also make small rods to rest their hand when they are painting. To work well on a small
 Cleaning panels Some clean them with soapy water, others with urine , others with white wine, for dust spoils the colors.
 you by casting a shadow which must always follow the back of your hand , not in a straight line like this, for the
 colors A slab of marble & p glass a glass thumb thick is more appropriate than anything else for grinding colors
 Drawing To become an artist, one needs to draw by eye , without compass or ruler. Masters do not allow apprentices
 point. The ruler and compass without the judgement of the eye cause errors. Perspective is very difficult. To paint perspective in
 & become whitish. To render it beautiful, grind it with urine & leave to dry. Then, whenever you like, grind it
 take easily, unless you rub this place with soap or breathe on it, because the humidity will make the colors take.
 charcoal at the farthest end, & de practically with your fingertips . For in this way you will acquire an artist’s
 will acquire an artist’s l stroke & will render your hand nimble. Glazing One commonly glazes with colors that do not
 because of the verdigris. One must not touch with a finger the layer made for the gold because that will keep
 over time & comes off in the rain. For preventing teats from swelling d or to diminish overly large ones Take
 & give it to the pigeons. Against bruising of the eyes At night, apply very thin sheets of lead. Singular remedy.
 it with the fist & pinching it well with the thumb & index finger, thoroughly wet the tip of all this
 the fist & pinching it well with the thumb & index finger , thoroughly wet the tip of all this hair in
 the hairs which make the tip too long with the ends of your fingernails , and this until the tip seems good to you,
 in water, do not bulge when you trace on your hand . Oil All oil which is imbibed by paper &
 immediately you will be able to crumble it between your fingers and easily pestle in a mortar of metal, or better
 ground with water so that when putting it on your fingernail , you find it soft without any asperity, like the
 hot, & so that the molded object should be 4 fingers away from the cast. In order to know its heat,
 piece of it flakes off, which easily crushes between your hands . You will also find in lean soils some which
 it be mixed with common earth, but three or 4 feet below & the closest to the tuf or stone. Since
 it is quite granular, & that when cushed between the fingers , it renders itself into very great subtlety, like impalpable,
 like impalpable, keeping nevertheless its sandy asperity, without muddying the fingers like clay. It is dried slightly on the fire, then
 & fine & lean, which nonetheless sticks together between one’s fingers . The sand wants to be reheated before putting it
 You will know its goodness by rubbing it with your finger , which will render it very black immediately. The alloy
 florey or of Flanders & quicklime, and put around four fingers of water over it, and let it soak one day.
 blows, one quite far from the other. Then wash your hands quite well & with your palm spread your varnish. Recipe
 other. Then wash your hands quite well & with your palm spread your varnish. Recipe for white gum Take white wax
 three hours. For making wood red Take one quart of old urine and three ounces of madder & one ounce of glass
 with green. For making it blue Take one quart of urine as above and one ounce of alum & two drams
 with green. For making it violet Take one quart of urine & one ounce of alum & two drams of sal
 lake, & do as above. For making it yellow Take urine as above and two ounces of guesdre woad & one
 dry on a piece of paper, & not put the hand in your materials. Against redness of the face Make a
 put the hand in your materials. Against redness of the face Make a small lead cap & wear it overnight. Excellent
 on top. And, receive the smoke by a quite tightened mouth , and a part will come out by your nose.
 tightened mouth, and a part will come out by your nose . But if you want to purge the head also
 by your nose. But if you want to purge the head also pinch the nose. Against colds, rheums, and other maladies.
 if you want to purge the head also pinch the nose . Against colds, rheums, and other maladies. Fatty earth Founders,
 & glass alum. For making water for disease of the eyes Take white copperas, & heat it a little on the
 the said cloth, while stirring the said powder with the finger until it has all gone through. Then wash your y
 until it has all gone through. Then wash your y eyes at any hour you wish & with the help of
 Or put half a pig’s bladder in front of the face . Tin for casting They use common tin, which is
 first they imprint it on carton, as thick as one finger , to serve as a pattern, then with a little
 good for all castings of lead and copper, mixed with urine . This needs to be of that whitish brick. Making
 is better, for it tightens evenly, & more than your hands , and makes the coarse sand, which is damp, communicate
 ground on porphyry, until it is not felt between your fingers . It molds on its own very neatly. But because
 & to mold it with sand, broken up with my fingers & the sharp edge of a knife. I oiled my
 that it gave a good hold in the between the fingers , and in this way, I molded neatly with a
 have been reheated sufficiently, they knock against it with their finger , & if they start to ring like a pot,
 prepared it thus & rendered it without asperity on the fingernail , I moistened it with beaten glair of egg &
 not too lean. However, it should break apart between your hands & have very small men & delicate grains & of
 two or three days, & so that when you take fistfuls , it holds together, without, however, attaching itself & being
 together, without, however, attaching itself & being pasted to your hand . You will mold very neatly with it. But let
 & which is found soft when handling it between the fingers . And because the latter is only found near the
 joins with some clay, & dry. Press, between them your hands joined between your two knees & not with a press,
 & dry. Press, between them your hands joined between your two knees & not with a press, because the bones would
 salt water, which one ought not to touch with the hands , for this makes them spoil. Observation from rustics That
 it. This kind gives a good grip even if the hand is sweating. To work it, if it is too hard,
 kind gives a good grip even if the hand is sweating . To work it, if it is too hard, one
 bloodstone The fustée is a square piece of wood three fingers in thickness, of boxwood, which is fitted in the middle
 coming from the forge, because they grind them with the foot , & this is what makes them wavy. Blades from
 drop or two of oil, which they spread with the finger to give it luster. Having put the oil, they furbish
 blade such that the whole ricasso is held in the hand , one conjectures that it will be just as heavy
 be very neat & without any knots & are one finger ’s thickness across. Then the furbisher puts them on a
 small narrow plane, one hollows & scrapes it half a foot toward the end of the talan, and the shorter the
 this, one smells it & brings it close to the nose . For one ought not to touch it with the
 nose. For one ought not to touch it with the fingers , but one holds it on lifts it from on
 very white & beautiful, & does not go to your head like that of spike lavender. For some, instead of tour
 laid down cold on the panel with a very clean fingertip , & one needs to spread it vigorously. The Italians
 dry skin & crust. One lays the varnish with a finger so as make a lean layer, because when thick, it
 art cannot work well if they do not have good breath , for if they have a bad one, their work
 you do not rub well with a brush or your finger the piece to be molded, which should be well oiled.
 for melting & for adding to alkali salt for cleaning hands . Gemstones Take white pebbles that are found by the
 For the furnace A coffer with a stone ten square thumbs in size and one foot thick, pierced in the middle
 with a stone ten square thumbs in size and one foot thick, pierced in the middle 2 earthenware boxes or pots
 lip at the end. Thus of a height of seven fingers ’ width. Painting on crystal or glass They paint in
 any longer than this, for it would cause a your flesh to grow excessively. You b shall bandage yourself twice a
 twice a day, & each time you shall wash your face with water & wine mixed together, a little tepid, not
 ointment, over which you can put ivy leaves. This causes hair to regrow & leaves no scar. A gunpowder maker who
 children, or those who se have protruding or swollen hemorrhoidal veins , one covers the end of the tube with a
 it among your colors, & that will make them run. Earwax If you take enough with the tip of an ear
 Earwax If you take enough with the tip of an ear picker & you pass it through the foam of urine,
 of an ear picker & you pass it through the foam of urine , which is readily made by those who have a
 urine, which is readily made by those who have a headache , all the foam will dissipate. Enamels For recognizing well
 the tree that exceeds your tree, ne three or 4 fingers above the shield for the first time, and apr then,
 giving it taking it out from its cage into the hand & opening its beak, & with a small wooden pin,
 and those which do not easily crumble away with your nail , and clean it well from powder & filth before
 exhalations, in the middle & around, as long as a finger . Seeing it in this state, remove it from the
 inside, pull. The lizard is more tedious to catch by hand than the snake & bites without letting go & grips
 go & grips like pincers. Snakes can be caught by hand , provided that it is covered by a thick woollen
 white c silk. It is in pieces long as a finger , & is very breakable & wooly as down. The
 long veins. It is very soft, such that with a fingernail one can scrape it, & makes a powder like our
 dragging the pestle, for the flying dust could enter your throat or land on your face, which will give you reason
 flying dust could enter your throat or land on your face , which will give you reason to scratch yourself well.
 because one often has to put the tools in the mouth , which are better in boxwood or bone of hart.
 them from above. It is necessary that blast-pipes be 4 fingers above the sole of the forge. Snakes for molding When
 vile animal, & if it were to piss in your hand , it would burn your hand & itch, as if
 were to piss in your hand, it would burn your hand & itch, as if you had handled nettles. But the
 the most powerful remedy for this is to put your hand into fresh earth & to cover it as if you
 from being bitten before catching them, and having put your foot on top of it, as close to the neck as
 render soubs from its bottom, which is five to six fingers from the end of its tail, all nasty and venomous
 only dig the earth with a knife, & bury his hand in fresh & damp earth, which, when applied fresh en
 And if, after having eaten something, it is thus pressed underfoot , this pains it greatly & hurts it. If it
 if half dry, that ilit does not attach to your hands , because otherwise it would attach to your work. Always
 ammoniac suffices in a pot of water, and to the tongue , you find the water moderately salty, for too much
 very delicate things. Lizards When one takes them with two fingers from the sides of the head, at the level of
 end of its lower mandible with the end of the fingernail , & next, with the upper mandible, he bites the
 fingernail, & next, with the upper mandible, he bites the nail , but he cannot pass through, but he clenches very
 clenches very strongly. And if he were to bite living flesh it would au not let go, & there would be
 may because the alum would not pass. Mix with your hands until neither one nor the other, neither white nor red,
 one of feather alum. Mix them all together with your hands that it in such a way that one cannot discern
 And put inside such a quantity of good vinegar & urine that it can be covered. And shake it & torment
 need a lot of eau-de-vie, one uses vinegar and er urine . But for small ones, only eau-de-vie, which is done
 beaten, such that it is handleable without attaching to the hands nor the work, make a lasagna or like a cake
 makers use, which should be a little thicker than a thumb . And on this cake, arrange your animal, aya imitating
 will be for a common snake as thick as two thumbs , in order that when you cast in your wetted
 that, when you want to put it to death in urine & vinegar, it fills with a lot of water &
 is hottish, such that you can hold it in your hand when you want to cast. As for the alloyed tin,
 it cool until you can hold the tip of your finger in the gate without burning yourself, but you find a
 & is exceed everywhere by the height of two good fingers the top of the such plant. And having secured the
 but rather pressed it only with the strength of my hands , because hitting it makes it go awry. Secure your
 sand, when moistened, does not stick at all to the hand when pressed. The perfect sand for the frame is aspalt,
 a kind of plaster. Raw, it breaks easily with the fingers . Excellent secret for molding hollow and very delicately in
 needs to, for the first day, take uyit in the hand & open its beak & put in its beak with
 ferri It is excellent plastered on wounds to stop the blood . The best is made of needle filings. Crocum ferri
 all, it must not make dust, nor remain on the hand , or leave a mark on it when you have
 you have pulverized it & then poured it from your hand . For it is River sand washed by the current
 Finally, take some of the same sand & with two fingers pulverize & cast it delicately on the flower, e imitating
 when the flower is as if half covered, strike your fist on the table where the box is set in order
 by the stem without touching it the fruit with your hand , and put them in glass bottles that have a
 a cos of earth full of water. For where the hand will touch, it will rot, and it is even good
 it will rot, and it is even good not to breathe on them. You can also put in leaves from vine.
 the mortar, as much as you can take with 4 fingers and the thumb, or a small double handful. Then, mix
 much as you can take with 4 fingers and the thumb , or a small double handful. Then, mix mix well
 with 4 fingers and the thumb, or a small double handful . Then, mix mix well & wet with a little
 hot, melt the wax a little, & with the other hand , close the jaws of the animal. And then you
 them as said above, and pestle them separately, keeping your face covered, over the nose & the mouth, from the eyes
 them as said above, and pestle them separately, keeping your face covered, over the nose & the mouth, from the eyes
 and pestle them separately, keeping your face covered, over the nose & the mouth, from the eyes down, to avoid the
 separately, keeping your face covered, over the nose & the mouth , from the eyes down, to avoid the exhalations of
 face covered, over the nose & the mouth, from the eyes down, to avoid the exhalations of arsenic, sublimate, and orpiment.
 the said butter, or zedoary, or gold coins, in your mouth , and ada cover your face with a cloth from
 or gold coins, in your mouth, and ada cover your face with a cloth from the eyes down. From this mass,
 and ada cover your face with a cloth from the eyes down. From this mass, the crust will serve you make
 Make a small hole in the earth, & place your ear fully there, at night or at a silent time, &
 care that it is at a distance of three good fingers from the wall of the forge. In this way, it
 molded thing, divide it into three or four parts like fingers which are pointed & are not very deep. For the
 anointing them with wheat oil. Kill them in vinegar & urine , like snakes &, or in eau-de-vie, and then shape
 give it some cheese that has been held under your armpit . Which must be a bad drug, & for the
 handle it without harm, or that you can keep your finger in the gate without burning yourself. It is also necessary
 ch is so hot that you can bear putting your finger in it. Do not open until it is cooled. It
 way that it can be furnished with three or 4 fingers all around, and especially at the bottom of the mold,
 ground on porphyry, until no roughness was perceived on the fingernail . Then, I wet it with very good vinegar &
 bubbles, but that can be pulverized very finely between the fingers . I put some in the sand, a half as
 mold is soft & fatty when scraping it with the fingernail , it is a sign that the crocum is good,
 many small spangles as you need. Take some of this phlegm or white thick which saliva that is found on the
 spangles as you need. Take some of this phlegm or white thick which saliva that is found on the teeth , & with the point of a burin, apply it
 or white thick which saliva that is found on the teeth , & with the point of a burin, apply it
 gold; & next, with a little fat earth wetted with saliva , make a small layer on the opposite side to
 least, it is necessary that it have four or five fingers of length. You can make it wide up until the
 it enough. Make sure also that it is distanced three fingers from the wall of the forge, in order that it
 should be of such heat that you cannot hold your finger there without feeling strong heat. Temper your sand thicker for
 is reheated let it cool until you can hold your finger without harm in the hole of the gate. As for
 so hot, that, at the beginning, you cannot hold your finger in it. And q take heed that it does not
 cool in such a way that I could hold my finger to it without burning myself. I made an alloy of
 then make it swallow some vinegar mixed with eau-de-vie or urine , as for snakes. One needs to mold them in
 rather quickly in vinegar mixed with a little eau-de-vie or urine , as with all other animals. They keep themselves, in
 work after you have killed it entirely in vinegar & urine , as said, let it dry well. And clean it
 water, so that without burning yourself, you can hold your finger in it without burning yourself, your sand, a little p
 the fire, they cry & crackle once brought near the ear . Then, join them & lute the joints with a
 run evenly everywhere, one knocks on the side of the hand that holds half of the bone. Once both charcoaled, one
 one tightens and presses it quite strongly. But because the fingers do not press evenly, for one if you press on
 for you will press equally, sometimes after l with your knee , other times with your foot with your shoe taken
 sometimes after l with your knee, other times with your foot with your shoe taken off, & make the bone be
 the mold, of such heat that you can hold your finger there without harm in the hole. in order that it
 come out, & sometimes suck and draw out with the mouth . Take heed not to attach the tail of the
 those better reheated. Crucible Take heed that it is three fingers from fe the mouth of the bellows, & that the
 inside, is of such capacity that the end of a little finger can almost enter it, widening like a clervoise the outside
 applies them on some leaf or bouquet. The others are made by hand with a very thin silver sheet. One ought not to
 For lizards that are as thick as one or two fingers , almost all lead, namely a lb of fine lead
 & then adapt a circle of soft clay aultr, two fingers high, around the hole, like for other molds. And then
 blow on the f the wet gate, & put the end of your finger in the hole a few times, po or some small
 & secure it with a rope which passes under your foot . The sand in the bag obeys & arranges itself
 only heated in warm water, or, even better, in warm urine . Or else, if you have a relief of gold
 and leaves with the air or when one blows one’s breath through the small opening. You can well give a bit
 cannot strike it boldly, & one needs to have a very light hand . The other great metals are easier. With a burin
 For making h… wine f…rs Take a sock from the right d foot that has been worn and make drink at it soak
 as if you were beating glair of egg. Molding a foot or hand Mix resin among the wax, & having incorporated
 you were beating glair of egg. Molding a foot or hand Mix resin among the wax, & having incorporated it well,
 having incorporated it well, soften them in hot water or urine , & then make an imprint by pressing, & next
 filings, well cleaned & washed, in an iron case, two fingers high & covered, & redden it thus in a reverberatory
 gloves, well-cleaned & well-dried, & dipping the tip of your finger very lightly on on the edge of the oil, spread
 little & with patience, & rub the glove between your hands , & trace the fingers & the stitches, one after
 by itself, being showered with salt water or vinegar or urine and then th dried out and reddened in fire, is
 bole, & approaching minium. But that which is showered with urine & dried out acquires a deeper tincture & approaches crushed
 being thus hot and fine, one throws on top vinegar, urine , or eau-de-vie. Urine gives much tincture, and eau-de-vie also.
 and fine, one throws on top vinegar, urine, or eau-de-vie. Urine gives much tincture, and eau-de-vie also. Repairing It is better
 a heat as you have noticed before by putting your finger in the hole, cast. And when the mold is large,
 once they have died in the mixture of vinegar & urine , & with a sponge purge their mouth, eyes, and
 for molding again, put them back into the mixture of urine , vinegar & eau-de-vie where you killed the others, and
 eram & in the second versicle the royal prophet says, Manus meae Manus meae fecerunt organum et digiti mei aptarunt psalterium.
 in the second versicle the royal prophet says, Manus meae Manus meae fecerunt organum et digiti mei aptarunt psalterium. Keeping chestnuts
 royal prophet says, Manus meae Manus meae fecerunt organum et digiti mei aptarunt psalterium. Keeping chestnuts One needs to leave them
 the muzzle, which is of 4 lines. They are xiii thumbs breadth long & seven in diameter at the muzzle & opening.
 is made like a gimlet, namely by three or 4 fingers , which goes entirely l into the door. When the
 the hollow of the hand & having wetted it with saliva , one makes from it something like a cocoon or
 is of a good alloy, one can give fire by hand just as one does with petards of 27 lb, but
 nothing in the mold & melts quicker. Wet it in warm urine , & once softened enough, make an imprint with it
 simul tusis. Eo aceto extinguantur lateres igniti et vapor excipiatur ore & naribus. This is to preserve oneself when one goes
 Eo aceto extinguantur lateres igniti et vapor excipiatur ore & naribus . This is to preserve oneself when one goes into
