 des Escrivains by St Jacques de la Boucherie, currier. Try pastel woad flowers . List The harvester that leaves some ears is not
 Romae 1554 Les Annales de Normandie For loosening the belly Prunes of Saint Antonin , & if you like you want put among them
 Antonin, & if you like you want put among them leaves of mallow & gilliflower , adding in sugar &, if one wants, a little
 put among them leaves of mallow & gilliflower, adding in sugar &, if one wants, a little cinnamon for the stomach.
 gilliflower, adding in sugar &, if one wants, a little cinnamon for the stomach. Or else marshmallow root in a chicken
 one wants, a little cinnamon for the stomach. Or else marshmallow root in a chicken broth. The fresh kind is more mollifying.
 cinnamon for the stomach. Or else marshmallow root in a chicken broth . The fresh kind is more mollifying. Beating syrup of
 a chicken broth. The fresh kind is more mollifying. Beating syrup of sweet jujubes with water & taking it in the morning loosens the
 kind is more mollifying. Beating syrup of sweet jujubes with water & taking it in the morning loosens the belly. Books
 Emile Paule Jove Polydorus Bergomensis Philippe de Commines Against pains Turpentine oil , oil of Jacob, and salt extracted from cabbage ash.
 Jove Polydorus Bergomensis Philippe de Commines Against pains Turpentine oil, oil of Jacob , and salt extracted from cabbage ash. List of books
 de Commines Against pains Turpentine oil, oil of Jacob, and salt extracted from cabbage ash . List of books Practica, cioè nova inventione di contegiare,
 nova inventione di contegiare, stampata in Brescia per Vincenzo Sabio. Emeralds of Brissac I have taken minium, 26 ℥, crystal and ground on
 Brescia per Vincenzo Sabio. Emeralds of Brissac I have taken minium , 26 ℥, crystal and ground on marble 12 ℥,
 Sabio. Emeralds of Brissac I have taken minium, 26 ℥, crystal and ground on marble 12 ℥, verdet 3 |ʒ|. Incorporate
 I have taken minium, 26 ℥, crystal and ground on marble 12 ℥, verdet 3 |ʒ|. Incorporate all together, put in
 minium, 26 ℥, crystal and ground on marble 12 ℥, verdet 3 |ʒ|. Incorporate all together, put in a crucible covered
 all together, put in a crucible covered with another, well luted , that has a hole in the top. Fusion 7
 The mass was of a beautiful green. I have taken minium 12 ℥, crystal 6 ℥, verdet 2 grains. Soft fusion
 of a beautiful green. I have taken minium 12 ℥, crystal 6 ℥, verdet 2 grains. Soft fusion vi hours, refired
 green. I have taken minium 12 ℥, crystal 6 ℥, verdet 2 grains. Soft fusion vi hours, refired 24 hours. The
 refired 24 hours. The mass was green, yellow & red. Sapphire Pebbles or crystal 8 ℥, minium 16 ℥, blacksmith’s salt
 24 hours. The mass was green, yellow & red. Sapphire Pebbles or crystal 8 ℥, minium 16 ℥, blacksmith’s salt 4
 The mass was green, yellow & red. Sapphire Pebbles or crystal 8 ℥, minium 16 ℥, blacksmith’s salt 4 ℥, sparkling
 green, yellow & red. Sapphire Pebbles or crystal 8 ℥, minium 16 ℥, blacksmith’s salt 4 ℥, sparkling coryal 4 grains.
 red. Sapphire Pebbles or crystal 8 ℥, minium 16 ℥, blacksmith’s salt 4 ℥, sparkling coryal 4 grains. Fusion 6 hours. Counterfeit
 8 ℥, minium 16 ℥, blacksmith’s salt 4 ℥, sparkling coryal 4 grains. Fusion 6 hours. Counterfeit coral                       +
 salt 4 ℥, sparkling coryal 4 grains. Fusion 6 hours. Counterfeit coral                       + One needs to first make the branches
            + One needs to first make the branches of wood or take a bizarre thorn branch, then melt a lb
 first make the branches of wood or take a bizarre thorn branch , then melt a lb of the most beautiful clear
 thorn branch, then melt a lb of the most beautiful clear pitch resin and put in one ounce of subtly ground vermilion with
 beautiful clear pitch resin and put in one ounce of subtly ground vermilion with walnut oil, and if you add in a little
 and put in one ounce of subtly ground vermilion with walnut oil , and if you add in a little Venice laque
 with walnut oil, and if you add in a little Venice laque platte , the color will be more vivid, and stir everything
 color will be more vivid, and stir everything in the resin melted over a charcoal fire and not of flame, for
 vivid, and stir everything in the resin melted over a charcoal fire and not of flame, for fear that it catches
 on it, turn the branch over the heat of the charcoal . Colophony is nothing other than recooked resin. To do
 it, turn the branch over the heat of the charcoal. Colophony is nothing other than recooked resin. To do it well,
 heat of the charcoal. Colophony is nothing other than recooked resin . To do it well, take a leaded pot &
 other than recooked resin. To do it well, take a leaded pot & melt the resin, & boil it over the
 do it well, take a leaded pot & melt the resin , & boil it over the brazier a good hour,
 appears not to be thick, but clear & liquid like water , & easily runs & flows from the tip of
 grind it, & test it. Then pour it through a coarse canvas or a very light tammy cloth, such that when pouring
 it. Then pour it through a coarse canvas or a very light tammy cloth , such that when pouring it falls into the strongest
 cloth, such that when pouring it falls into the strongest vinegar that you can find, for the vinegar gives it strength
 into the strongest vinegar that you can find, for the vinegar gives it strength & prevents it from being so fragile.
 it will be beautiful & well purified. For counterfeiting your coral , you can mix a quarter part of mastic into
 counterfeiting your coral, you can mix a quarter part of mastic into your purified resin to render it more firm and
 you can mix a quarter part of mastic into your purified resin to render it more firm and more beautiful, & if
 & if you were to take a single tear of mastic , it would be all the better, but it would
 be all the better, but it would be too long. Sulfur & vermilion makes the same effect. The coral made of
 the better, but it would be too long. Sulfur & vermilion makes the same effect. The coral made of gules red
 too long. Sulfur & vermilion makes the same effect. The coral made of gules red enamel endures the file and polishing.
 & vermilion makes the same effect. The coral made of gules red enamel endures the file and polishing. It is made like cement
 enamel endures the file and polishing. It is made like cement that is stronger mixed with pestled than of glass rather
 It is made like cement that is stronger mixed with pestled than of glass rather than with brick. Thus, here one mixes well pestled
 stronger mixed with pestled than of glass rather than with brick . Thus, here one mixes well pestled gules red enamel,
 rather than with brick. Thus, here one mixes well pestled gules red enamel , which is red in body, with the vermilion. Thus
 gules red enamel, which is red in body, with the vermilion . Thus with all colors of enamels. Varnish for panels
 in body, with the vermilion. Thus with all colors of enamels . Varnish for panels Take a lb of Venice turpentine
 body, with the vermilion. Thus with all colors of enamels. Varnish for panels Take a lb of Venice turpentine & heat
 colors of enamels. Varnish for panels Take a lb of Venice turpentine & heat it in a pot until it simmers, and
 it simmers, and put in half a lb of the turpentine oil of the whitest you can find, and stir it together
 you can find, and stir it together well on a charcoal fire and take it off immediately. And elle it is
 seems too thick to you, add in a little more oil . Similarly if it is too clear, you can thicken
 clear, you can thicken it by putting in a little turpentine . Thus you will give it whatever body you want.
 is commonly sold 15 sous a lb. A little more turpentine than turpentine oil is needed in order to give body
 sold 15 sous a lb. A little more turpentine than turpentine oil is needed in order to give body to the varnish,
 oil is needed in order to give body to the varnish , which needs to be applied with the finger in
 is thick, it turns yellow and sticks. One does not varnish to make paintings shine, for it just takes the light
 which have soaked in and to keep them from dust. Mastic varnish does not resist rain, whereas that of oil and rosin
 dust. Mastic varnish does not resist rain, whereas that of oil and rosin does. Thick varnish for planks There is a
 varnish does not resist rain, whereas that of oil and rosin does. Thick varnish for planks There is a varnish that
 not resist rain, whereas that of oil and rosin does. Thick varnish for planks There is a varnish that takes a long
 and rosin does. Thick varnish for planks There is a varnish that takes a long time to dry & drips more
 drip like that of times past, which was made of linseed oil , garlic boiled in it to extinguish it & rid
 that of times past, which was made of linseed oil, garlic boiled in it to extinguish it & rid it of
 to extinguish it & rid it of grease, & with wheat . And this one yellowed & rendered greenish the blue
 is made like the other one except that one puts coarse common turpentine instead of fine turpentine. And you can put into two
 one except that one puts coarse common turpentine instead of fine turpentine . And you can put into two lb of toucommon
 turpentine. And you can put into two lb of tou common turpentine one lb of fine turpentine oil & do everything as
 put into two lb of toucommon turpentine one lb of fine turpentine oil & do everything as with the other one. This one
 per lb. This vessel is for making large quantities of turpentine oil , that is to say a bucket an hour, and
 to say a bucket an hour, and no matter which turpentine it may be, whether fine or crude . One needs to give, as you know, a little
 know, a little fire at the beginning and always keep cold water in the cooler on the top. The lb is sold
 sous, & at the bottom of the vessel remains the colophony , or pix graeca. In this vessel, eau-de-vie is also
 at the bottom of the vessel remains the colophony, or pix graeca . In this vessel, eau-de-vie is also made well, and
 vessel remains the colophony, or pix graeca. In this vessel, eau-de-vie is also made well, and there is no need to
 it again. You do not need a oven for this copper vessel, but only charcoal around it if it has a
 not need a oven for this copper vessel, but only charcoal around it if it has a flat bottom, but if
 it on a trivet. It is better to heat the varnish a little bit, rather than to put it out in
 Some say it is not good to distil in this copper vessel because it makes things green. However, when tinned, it
 this copper vessel because it makes things green. However, when tinned , it is good. For varnishing Turpentine varnish does not
 things green. However, when tinned, it is good. For varnishing Turpentine varnish does not need any glue because it is fatty &
 is good. For varnishing Turpentine varnish does not need any glue because it is fatty & viscous & it is not
 fatty & viscous & it is not absorbed in the wood like that of spike lavender & sandarac. Also, that of
 it is not absorbed in the wood like that of spike lavender & sandarac. Also, that of spike lavender does not require
 absorbed in the wood like that of spike lavender & sandarac . Also, that of spike lavender does not require any
 like that of spike lavender & sandarac. Also, that of spike lavender does not require any glue on iron & similar things
 sandarac. Also, that of spike lavender does not require any glue on iron & similar things that do not absorb. But
 that of spike lavender does not require any glue on iron & similar things that do not absorb. But on wood
 iron & similar things that do not absorb. But on wood & on colors which have do not have gum or
 on wood & on colors which have do not have gum or distemper glue, it is necessary to lay one coat
 & on colors which have do not have gum or distemper glue , it is necessary to lay one coat of the
 it is necessary to lay one coat of the said hide glue & to let it dry & to varnish. Varnish of
 hide glue & to let it dry & to varnish. Varnish of spike lavender oil One needs to heat lavender spike oil & as it
 varnish. Varnish of spike lavender oil One needs to heat lavender spike oil & as it begins to simmer, put in powdered sandarac
 spike oil & as it begins to simmer, put in powdered sandarac gum so that it soon melts. And over a charcoal fire
 sandarac gum so that it soon melts. And over a charcoal fire stir continuously until the sandarac is well melted, which
 melts. And over a charcoal fire stir continuously until the sandarac is well melted, which you will know by taking a
 you will know by taking a little of the said varnish on a plate, and if it is fatty when you
 a finger, it is ready. And for one lb of lavender spike oil , you will put five ounces of pulverized sandarac, although
 of lavender spike oil, you will put five ounces of pulverized sandarac , although some only put in four ounces, but this
 dry. Frame makers, to avoid the trouble of polishing their ebony , varnish it with this, as do guitar makers. This
 This is not as appropriate for panels as that of fine turpentine , though it is good for the moldings of panels.
 not use to varnish the landscape of a panel when linseed varnish was in use, because it yellowed the landscape. But with
 use, because it yellowed the landscape. But with that of turpentine , one varnishes everywhere. You can put in pulverized mastic
 that of turpentine, one varnishes everywhere. You can put in pulverized mastic extracted in tears or otherwise, & it will be more
 otherwise, & it will be more dessicative, in place of sandarac . If you want to varnish on plaster or a
 in place of sandarac. If you want to varnish on plaster or a wall, first put on your very hot hide
 plaster or a wall, first put on your very hot hide glue , because if were cold it would not penetrate the
 not penetrate the wall, & when you would put your varnish on, it would come off. Varnish of spike lavender oil
 you would put your varnish on, it would come off. Varnish of spike lavender oil is not as appropriate for colors as that of turpentine,
 oil is not as appropriate for colors as that of turpentine , for spike lavender oil makes them die eats away
 not as appropriate for colors as that of turpentine, for spike lavender oil makes them die eats away at the colors since it
 at the colors since it is too penetrating. For removing varnish from an old panel that is yellowish & varnishing it
 old panel that is yellowish & varnishing it anew Take white soap & sieved ashese, & soak both in water. And with
 is yellowish & varnishing it anew Take white soap & sieved ashes e, & soak both in water. And with a sponge,
 Take white soap & sieved ashese, & soak both in water . And with a sponge, take the said ashes &
 both in water. And with a sponge, take the said ashes & soap & rub the panel with them. And as
 water. And with a sponge, take the said ashes & soap & rub the panel with them. And as you see
 panel with them. And as you see that the old varnish is removed, throw a bucket of water against the panel
 that the old varnish is removed, throw a bucket of water against the panel to clean it. Next put it for
 Next, once the panel is dry, you can spread your turpentine varnish on it. Make sure the colors do not come off.
 on it. Make sure the colors do not come off. Black varnish for sword guard, bands for trunks, &c Take linseed oil
 Black varnish for sword guard, bands for trunks, &c Take linseed oil or more cheaply, walnut oil, and rid it of grease
 bands for trunks, &c Take linseed oil or more cheaply, walnut oil , and rid it of grease with garlic & onions
 more cheaply, walnut oil, and rid it of grease with garlic & onions +hog’s fennel, some also add bread crusts, which
 walnut oil, and rid it of grease with garlic & onions +hog’s fennel, some also add bread crusts, which you will
 and rid it of grease with garlic & onions + hog’s fennel , some also add bread crusts, which you will boil
 grease with garlic & onions +hog’s fennel, some also add bread crusts , which you will boil in it for a good
 of an hour. Next, put in one lb of the oil thus boiled the size of a walnut of black pitch
 the oil thus boiled the size of a walnut of black pitch & a double handful of grains of wheat, without removing
 a walnut of black pitch & a double handful of grains of wheat , without removing the garlic & onions, and let it
 a double handful of grains of wheat, without removing the garlic & onions, and let it boil together for a good
 handful of grains of wheat, without removing the garlic & onions , and let it boil together for a good quarter
 for a good quarter of an hour. And when the pitch is well melted & when the oil has body, you
 And when the pitch is well melted & when the oil has body, you can remove it from the fire. Then,
 remove it from the fire. Then, to varnish, place your iron over a low charcoal fire & apply your varnish with
 fire. Then, to varnish, place your iron over a low charcoal fire & apply your varnish with a feather or a
 your iron over a low charcoal fire & apply your varnish with a feather or a brush. And when you see
 a brush. And when you see that it no longer smokes , it is done and your varnish is dry. For
 that it no longer smokes, it is done and your varnish is dry. For excellent black varnish, add two or three
 it is done and your varnish is dry. For excellent black varnish , add two or three paternoster beads of jet among
 excellent black varnish, add two or three paternoster beads of jet among the rest. Some consider walnut oil better. If there
 three paternoster beads of jet among the rest. Some consider walnut oil better. If there is a lot of varnish, it needs
 consider walnut oil better. If there is a lot of varnish , it needs to boil for at least half a
 or an open space. In five or six lb of oil , one must put one lb of galipot, which costs
 six lb of oil, one must put one lb of galipot , which costs 4 sous, & some peeled garlic cloves.
 one lb of galipot, which costs 4 sous, & some peeled garlic cloves . This varnish in and of itself is not black,
 which costs 4 sous, & some peeled garlic cloves. This varnish in and of itself is not black, but it blackens
 See below, around the 3rd part of this book, after sands , in the chapter on furbishers. Black varnish without fire,
 of this book, after sands, in the chapter on furbishers. Black varnish without fire, without disassembling the harnesses or removing the bands
 disassembling the harnesses or removing the bands from trunks Take varnish of spike lavender oil & mix in soot black or lampblack, & without fire
 trunks Take varnish of spike lavender oil & mix in soot black or lampblack, & without fire it will mix in by
 of spike lavender oil & mix in soot black or lampblack , & without fire it will mix in by itself.
 Varnish with a brush & it will soon be dry. Turpentine varnish will be quite good, but it does not dry as
 be quite good, but it does not dry as soon. Varnish of iron etchers Take linseed oil or walnut oil &, in place of
 does not dry as soon. Varnish of iron etchers Take linseed oil or walnut oil &, in place of black pitch, you
 as soon. Varnish of iron etchers Take linseed oil or walnut oil &, in place of black pitch, you will put in
 Take linseed oil or walnut oil &, in place of black pitch , you will put in a little pitch resin, &
 place of black pitch, you will put in a little pitch resin , & it needs to be cooked in the fashion
 & it needs to be cooked in the fashion of black varnish on fire. And for applying it, heat your iron &
 black varnish on fire. And for applying it, heat your iron & give it only one layer of varnish, & when
 heat your iron & give it only one layer of varnish , & when it no longer smokes, it is dry.
 only one layer of varnish, & when it no longer smokes , it is dry. Next engrave with a steel point
 no longer smokes, it is dry. Next engrave with a steel point whatever you want. Next take salt & verdigris &
 engrave with a steel point whatever you want. Next take salt & verdigris & mix as much of one as of
 a steel point whatever you want. Next take salt & verdigris & mix as much of one as of the other
 mix as much of one as of the other in quite strong vinegar & leave it for xx4 hours before using it, &
 or sauce on the engraved object with a sponge or linen & leave it thus for xx4 hours & it will
 it in the said liquor, & it will promptly etch. Steel mirrors They are called of steel because in times past
 it will promptly etch. Steel mirrors They are called of steel because in times past they were commonly made of steel
 steel because in times past they were commonly made of steel polished with emery putty. But more easily, various kinds are
 times past they were commonly made of steel polished with emery putty . But more easily, various kinds are made with cuivre
 emery putty. But more easily, various kinds are made with cuivre franc , which is rosette & tin, because it is cast
 easily, various kinds are made with cuivre franc, which is rosette & tin, because it is cast in a mold &
 kinds are made with cuivre franc, which is rosette & tin , because it is cast in a mold & made
 one likes, to represent various forms. + So take half rosette copper & half soft tin, that is to say fine, which
 various forms. + So take half rosette copper & half soft tin , that is to say fine, which has not yet
 used. Put them in a crucible, & first melt the copper well. And once it is well melted, put in the
 well. And once it is well melted, put in the tin and mix together. Then cast in the mold, of white
 tin and mix together. Then cast in the mold, of white stone with no eyelets, & anoint the mold with oil, &
 white stone with no eyelets, & anoint the mold with oil , & let it be moderately warm. Then, having molded
 polish it in this way. Set one of these in plaster in order that it holds firmly, & then put the
 firmly, & then put the other one over it with thin sand in between, & rub one against the other, whether it
 to say put the one that was polishing into the plaster & the one that was in the plaster to polish.
 into the plaster & the one that was in the plaster to polish. After having polished them with the arene you
 the plaster to polish. After having polished them with the arene you can soften them with Venice tripoli, which should not
 polished them with the arene you can soften them with Venice tripoli , which should not be sandy, & next with putty.
 Venice tripoli, which should not be sandy, & next with putty . You polish with arene using water, but polishing with
 not be sandy, & next with putty. You polish with arene using water, but polishing with tripoli & putty is done
 sandy, & next with putty. You polish with arene using water , but polishing with tripoli & putty is done dry.
 putty. You polish with arene using water, but polishing with tripoli & putty is done dry. Once polished, you can set
 polish with arene using water, but polishing with tripoli & putty is done dry. Once polished, you can set it. Concave
 one side to the other. Then place a sheet of paper on the window & let the middle of the sheet
 who pass by in the street on the sheet of paper . Similarly with the pierced door of a closed room.
 describes, & Archimedes. The concave one also sets fire to straw from quite far away, and lights a candle with the
 fire to straw from quite far away, and lights a candle with the sun. Also, it heats through the reverberation of
 reverberation of fire. For bronzing in yellow and white Take looking-glass tin and melt it. On half a lb of this, put
 half a lb of this, put half an ounce of quicksilver , and remove it all at once from the fire
 the fire & grind it, and it will be like ash . Grind Wash it quite well in clean water. Next,
 will be like ash. Grind Wash it quite well in clean water . Next, grind it on marble & temper it with
 it quite well in clean water. Next, grind it on marble & temper it with water of ret hide glue. Next,
 water. Next, grind it on marble & temper it with water of ret hide glue . Next, apply to your wooden candlesticks & any other
 with water of ret hide glue. Next, apply to your wooden candlesticks & any other work you like, & burnish with
 you like, & burnish with the tooth. You can grind pin filings & apply them with the said glue. For laying down
 can grind pin filings & apply them with the said glue . For laying down and seating burnished gold and giving
 them with the said glue. For laying down and seating burnished gold and giving red or green or blue Ceruse & lead
 seating burnished gold and giving red or green or blue Ceruse & lead white is not appropriate for polished white nor
 gold and giving red or green or blue Ceruse & lead white is not appropriate for polished white nor for burnishing because
 because it is fatty, but it is quite good for or mat which is made with oil, mixing it with yellow ocher
 is quite good for or mat which is made with oil , mixing it with yellow ocher & mine po &
 mat which is made with oil, mixing it with yellow ocher & mine po & tempering all of it with oil.
 is made with oil, mixing it with yellow ocher & mine po & tempering all of it with oil. And this
 ocher & mine po & tempering all of it with oil . And this or mat thus applied keeps in the
 po & tempering all of it with oil. And this or mat thus applied keeps in the rain like gilded lead work
 this or mat thus applied keeps in the rain like gilded lead work & similar things. Therefore for burnished gold take good chalk,
 rain like gilded lead work & similar things. Therefore for burnished gold take good chalk, quite white, well ground, & tempered with
 lead work & similar things. Therefore for burnished gold take good chalk, quite white, well ground , & tempered with distemper glue, & make four layers
 take good chalk, quite white, well ground, & tempered with distemper glue , & make four layers of it, one after the
 four layers of it, one after the other, on the wood . And once the last is dry, rub it with
 wood. And once the last is dry, rub it with prele , which is a plant otherwise called horsetail, to render
 rub it with prele, which is a plant otherwise called horsetail , to render it well polished. Next take fine boli
 otherwise called horsetail, to render it well polished. Next take fine boli armeni & sanguine, as much of one as of the other,
 render it well polished. Next take fine boli armeni & sanguine , as much of one as of the other, also
 sanguine, as much of one as of the other, also lamb tallow the size of a bean or a pea depending on
 of the other, also lamb tallow the size of a bean or a pea depending on the quantity of bole, and
 also lamb tallow the size of a bean or a pea depending on the quantity of bole, and a little willow
 a bean or a pea depending on the quantity of bole , and a little willow charcoal, or as much as
 pea depending on the quantity of bole, and a little willow charcoal , or as much as the tallow, & half a
 and a little willow charcoal, or as much as the tallow , & half a walnut shell full of half-burned saffron.
 the tallow, & half a walnut shell full of half-burned saffron . Some put in a little candy sugar. Grind all
 shell full of half-burned saffron. Some put in a little candy sugar . Grind all together with water, & apply it without
 put in a little candy sugar. Grind all together with water , & apply it without gum or glue, & let
 sugar. Grind all together with water, & apply it without gum or glue, & let it dry, & rub the place
 all together with water, & apply it without gum or glue , & let it dry, & rub the place that
 is a little shiny, it is a sign that the gold will be carried well. Having rubbed, wash with a clean
 well. Having rubbed, wash with a clean paintbrush soaked in clear water the place that you want to gild & immediately apply
 place that you want to gild & immediately apply the gold , which you will burnish once dry. And if you
 burnish once dry. And if you want to lay in rouge clair & glaze with it de, grind Venice laque platte on
 lay in rouge clair & glaze with it de, grind Venice laque platte on marble with walnut or linseed oil. Once ground, mix
 & glaze with it de, grind Venice laque platte on marble with walnut or linseed oil. Once ground, mix turpentine or
 with it de, grind Venice laque platte on marble with walnut or linseed oil . Once ground, mix turpentine or spike lavender varnish &
 on marble with walnut or linseed oil. Once ground, mix turpentine or spike lavender varnish & apply on the gold with the paintbrush. Brazilwood &
 mix turpentine or spike lavender varnish & apply on the gold with the paintbrush. Brazilwood & laque ronde die. For green,
 lavender varnish & apply on the gold with the paintbrush. Brazilwood & laque ronde die. For green, temper verdigris with walnut
 & apply on the gold with the paintbrush. Brazilwood & laque ronde die. For green, temper verdigris with walnut or linseed oil
 the paintbrush. Brazilwood & laque ronde die. For green, temper verdigris with walnut or linseed oil & grind it, next mix
 Brazilwood & laque ronde die. For green, temper verdigris with walnut or linseed oil & grind it, next mix in turpentine varnish and not
 walnut or linseed oil & grind it, next mix in turpentine varnish and not spike lavender varnish , which is not suitable for verdigris. If you want
 and not spike lavender varnish, which is not suitable for verdigris . If you want to glaze with azure, it needs
 not suitable for verdigris. If you want to glaze with azure , it needs to be set on burnished silver and
 to glaze with azure, it needs to be set on burnished silver and take azur d’esmail, &, without grinding, temper it with
 it needs to be set on burnished silver and take azur d’esmail , &, without grinding, temper it with turpentine varnish &
 and take azur d’esmail, &, without grinding, temper it with turpentine varnish & apply it. > For ga cachcages You can embellish
 it. > For ga cachcages You can embellish them with enamel cannules of various colors by covering the latten or iron wire
 them with enamel cannules of various colors by covering the latten or iron wire with the said cannules. These you will break neatly to
 at any other place. You can bend them with a wood model over a chafing-dish or else by the heat of
 is a grate that supports the lit charcoal, & the ash is emptied by turning the furnace upside down. For stampings
 of chests, or the friezes of bed valances Etch with aquafortis on iron or copper whatever you have pounced and drawn
 or the friezes of bed valances Etch with aquafortis on iron or copper whatever you have pounced and drawn there, next
 friezes of bed valances Etch with aquafortis on iron or copper whatever you have pounced and drawn there, next clean it
 clean it up with a burin or chisel. Then pour soft tin which has not been used onto polished marble & with
 Then pour soft tin which has not been used onto polished marble & with a wooden board, flatten it quite thin. Or
 has not been used onto polished marble & with a wooden board, flatten it quite thin. Or else cast it in
 quite thin. Or else cast it in tablet form like lead , or put it through a roller press. Next lay
 or put it through a roller press. Next lay your tin plate over the etched thing, & over the tin plate
 your tin plate over the etched thing, & over the tin plate put a piece of felt and strike on top
 thing, & over the tin plate put a piece of felt and strike on top with a hammer. Then gild it
 of felt and strike on top with a hammer. Then gild it in this way. For gilding with gold color and
 hammer. Then gild it in this way. For gilding with gold color and tinsel Once you have gilded colored, make your stamping
 it in this way. For gilding with gold color and tinsel Once you have gilded colored, make your stamping either in
 Once you have gilded colored, make your stamping either in tin , as is said, or in iron dest or copper.
 your stamping either in tin, as is said, or in iron dest or copper. You ought not to put a layer
 in tin, as is said, or in iron dest or copper . You ought not to put a layer of glue
 or copper. You ought not to put a layer of glue there as on wood, but take only fatty oil, which
 not to put a layer of glue there as on wood , but take only fatty oil, which is made in
 layer of glue there as on wood, but take only fatty oil , which is made in seven or eight days in
 made in seven or eight days in the sun with walnut oil and lead white & with, stirring it often, or cooking
 or eight days in the sun with walnut oil and lead white & with, stirring it often, or cooking it on the
 the fire if one is in haste. Then, with the oil thus made fatty, grind a little lead white, massicot &
 Then, with the oil thus made fatty, grind a little lead white , massicot & mine de plomb , at discretion, as
 the oil thus made fatty, grind a little lead white, massicot & mine de plomb , at discretion, as much of
 thus made fatty, grind a little lead white, massicot & mine de plomb , at discretion, as much of one as of the
 at discretion, as much of one as of the other. Minium gives color to the gold. Next, with this, you make
 one as of the other. Minium gives color to the gold . Next, with this, you make a layer of it
 the hollows. And once it is almost dry, lay the gold leaf on it with cotton. Such gold will hold up
 is almost dry, lay the gold leaf on it with cotton . Such gold will hold up in the rain on
 dry, lay the gold leaf on it with cotton. Such gold will hold up in the rain on houses & elsewhere.
 on houses & elsewhere. And if you have gilded with tinsel , color it with smoke of partridge or of yellow
 And if you have gilded with tinsel, color it with smoke of partridge or of yellow or red cloth , & it will be beautiful like fine gold. You
 it with smoke of partridge or of yellow or red cloth , & it will be beautiful like fine gold. You
 or red cloth, & it will be beautiful like fine gold . You can cover trunks, mirrors, valences & bedposts with
 You can cover trunks, mirrors, valences & bedposts with colored velvet or satin, then apply the gilded stampings on top with
 cover trunks, mirrors, valences & bedposts with colored velvet or satin , then apply the gilded stampings on top with strong
 or satin, then apply the gilded stampings on top with strong glue . For coloring stamped trunks The stampings of sheets of
 with strong glue. For coloring stamped trunks The stampings of sheets of copper or latten is made on engraved & carved service tree wood, if
 of copper or latten is made on engraved & carved service tree wood , if one wants to spend less. And next, the
 the stamped object is colored with the aforesaid colors of lake , verdet, azur d’esmail, & tempered in turpentine varnish. But
 stamped object is colored with the aforesaid colors of lake, verdet , azur d’esmail, & tempered in turpentine varnish. But in
 object is colored with the aforesaid colors of lake, verdet, azur d’esmail , & tempered in turpentine varnish. But in the place
 aforesaid colors of lake, verdet, azur d’esmail, & tempered in turpentine varnish . But in the place you want to azure, lay
 in turpentine varnish. But in the place you want to azure , lay down fer blanc, which is more appropriate for
 But in the place you want to azure, lay down fer blanc , which is more appropriate for an azure background. Doublets
 lay down fer blanc, which is more appropriate for an azure background. Doublets Good dragon’s blood soaked in eau-de-vie carries its
 which is more appropriate for an azure background. Doublets Good dragon’s blood soaked in eau-de-vie carries its mastic or glue in itself,
 for an azure background. Doublets Good dragon’s blood soaked in eau-de-vie carries its mastic or glue in itself, as do sap-green
 background. Doublets Good dragon’s blood soaked in eau-de-vie carries its mastic or glue in itself, as do sap-green & saffron. Fish
 Good dragon’s blood soaked in eau-de-vie carries its mastic or glue in itself, as do sap-green & saffron. Fish glue or
 eau-de-vie carries its mastic or glue in itself, as do sap-green & saffron. Fish glue or isinglass and mouth glue It
 its mastic or glue in itself, as do sap-green & saffron . Fish glue or isinglass and mouth glue It is
 mastic or glue in itself, as do sap-green & saffron. Fish glue or isinglass and mouth glue It is made from codfish
 in itself, as do sap-green & saffron. Fish glue or isinglass and mouth glue It is made from codfish skin, boiled
 as do sap-green & saffron. Fish glue or isinglass and mouth glue It is made from codfish skin, boiled rather than being
 glue or isinglass and mouth glue It is made from codfish skin , boiled rather than being salted. Joiners glue their masterpieces
 It is made from codfish skin, boiled rather than being salted . Joiners glue their masterpieces with it and guitar maker
 made from codfish skin, boiled rather than being salted. Joiners glue their masterpieces with it and guitar maker use it for
 It wants to be strongly beaten, then soaked gently in barely boiling water . Mouth glue is made of parchment scrapings and one
 be strongly beaten, then soaked gently in barely boiling water. Mouth glue is made of parchment scrapings and one uses it without
 gently in barely boiling water. Mouth glue is made of parchment scrapings and one uses it without fire, for glueing paper or
 of parchment scrapings and one uses it without fire, for glueing paper or similar things, wetting it with the mouth. One
 parchment scrapings and one uses it without fire, for glueing paper or similar things, wetting it with the mouth. One beats
 the mouth. One beats it and soaks it in in eau-de-vie of vinegar white wine for one night, then one melts
 One beats it and soaks it in in eau-de-vie of vinegar white wine for one night, then one melts it on
 beats it and soaks it in in eau-de-vie of vinegar white wine for one night, then one melts it on a slow
 melts it on a slow fire. Others soak it in eau-de-vie . For giving the color of all kinds of metals
 in eau-de-vie. For giving the color of all kinds of metals to wood & other things Take touchstone & pumice stone
 For giving the color of all kinds of metals to wood & other things Take touchstone & pumice stone as much
 all kinds of metals to wood & other things Take touchstone & pumice stone as much of one as of the
 of metals to wood & other things Take touchstone & pumice stone as much of one as of the other & grind
 the other & grind them together & mix with a hide glue stronger than that used for painting, & paint it on
 whatever you like. Once dry, rub this layer with any metal whatsoever, then burnish it. Against windy colic Take a dozen
 whatsoever, then burnish it. Against windy colic Take a dozen dried common walnuts & throw them one after another into a good brazier
 flame well in the air, and extinguish them in a glass of good wine. Next, let the wine cool and strain
 in the air, and extinguish them in a glass of good wine . Next, let the wine cool and strain it, &
 them in a glass of good wine. Next, let the wine cool and strain it, & pour half of it, for
 strain it, & pour half of it, for six extinguished walnuts are for one dose. Excellent cure against the suffocation of
 relieving the pain of G. Take half a lb of finely pulverized golden & yellow marcasite , half an ounce of storax, 4 lb of urine,
 finely pulverized golden & yellow marcasite, half an ounce of storax , 4 lb of urine, incorporate everything well together, little
 yellow marcasite, half an ounce of storax, 4 lb of urine , incorporate everything well together, little by little, in a
 pot needs to be well covered in order that the fumes do not exhale. Next distil the it is urine, imbibed
 the fumes do not exhale. Next distil the it is urine , imbibed & separated by inclination, in an alembic, well-luted
 urine, imbibed & separated by inclination, in an alembic, well- luted & covered with a copper helmet & soak a linen
 by inclination, in an alembic, well-luted & covered with a copper helmet & soak a linen cloth with the said water
 well-luted & covered with a copper helmet & soak a linen cloth with the said water & apply it lukewarm on
 copper helmet & soak a linen cloth with the said water & apply it lukewarm on the pain. Against gonorrhea Aquae
 water & apply it lukewarm on the pain. Against gonorrhea Aquae fabrorum antiquae lb i., boli Armeniae in tel tenuissimum pollinem redactae ℥.i.,
 on the pain. Against gonorrhea Aquae fabrorum antiquae lb i., boli Armeniae in tel tenuissimum pollinem redactae ℥.i., mellis communis ʒ.iii. coquantur
 lb i., boli Armeniae in tel tenuissimum pollinem redactae ℥.i., mellis communis ʒ.iii. coquantur ad mellis despumationem. Tum refrigerata colentur cum forti
 tel tenuissimum pollinem redactae ℥.i., mellis communis ʒ.iii. coquantur ad mellis despumationem. Tum refrigerata colentur cum forti expressione & de colatura
 forti expressione & de colatura utatur per injectionem. Lettering of gold on paper Write with fig tree milk then let it
 & de colatura utatur per injectionem. Lettering of gold on paper Write with fig tree milk then let it dry a
 utatur per injectionem. Lettering of gold on paper Write with fig tree milk then let it dry a little, next lay the gold
 milk then let it dry a little, next lay the gold leaf , & once quite dry, rub with a linen cloth
 the gold leaf, & once quite dry, rub with a linen cloth and only the lettering will remain. For bursting grenades
 bursting grenades and giving force to fireworks Put among the powder six times as much of quicksilver and a sixth part
 fireworks Put among the powder six times as much of quicksilver and a sixth part of quicksilver. Tempering of balls for
 times as much of quicksilver and a sixth part of quicksilver . Tempering of balls for piercing armor of proof Heat
 Tempering of balls for piercing armor of proof Heat the lead ball as much as you can without melting it, and
 when it will be very hot, temper it in the strongest vinegar that you can. And do this four or five times.
 And do this four or five times. Next, chop some lard very small & some linen also very finely, mix all
 five times. Next, chop some lard very small & some linen also very finely, mix all together & use it as
 also very finely, mix all together & use it as wadding , and by a little force & very precisely, force
 wall as you know, put a petard inside, charged with powder , which should be as if lying down, & the
 then plug the hole & give fire. Polishing of the balas ruby It is not polished with tripoli but like the others,
 Polishing of the balas ruby It is not polished with tripoli but like the others, but with marcasite powder & oil.
 not polished with tripoli but like the others, but with marcasite powder & oil. Or and argent moulu You need to calcine
 tripoli but like the others, but with marcasite powder & oil . Or and argent moulu You need to calcine your
 but like the others, but with marcasite powder & oil. Or and argent moulu You need to calcine your fine gold
 the others, but with marcasite powder & oil. Or and argent moulu You need to calcine your fine gold with ☿ and
 oil. Or and argent moulu You need to calcine your fine gold with ☿ and then cleanse your amalgam well & make
 argent moulu You need to calcine your fine gold with ☿ and then cleanse your amalgam well & make the said
 and then cleanse your amalgam well & make the said mercury fly off. Next grind it on marble with gum water.
 make the said mercury fly off. Next grind it on marble with gum water. As for silver one needs to take
 said mercury fly off. Next grind it on marble with gum water . As for silver one needs to take it as
 Next grind it on marble with gum water. As for silver one needs to take it as is & eat away
 take it as is & eat away at it with aquafortis , then take it out with a copper blade &
 at it with aquafortis, then take it out with a copper blade & rinse it thoroughly and next grind it with
 blade & rinse it thoroughly and next grind it with gum water . Polishing of stones There are three wheels for doing
 thoroughly and next grind it with gum water. Polishing of stones There are three wheels for doing this, one of tin,
 stones There are three wheels for doing this, one of tin , one of lead & one of fine copper. On
 three wheels for doing this, one of tin, one of lead & one of fine copper. On the cu copper wheel
 this, one of tin, one of lead & one of fine copper . On the cu copper wheel only the diamond, the
 of lead & one of fine copper. On the cu copper wheel only the diamond, the ruby, sapphire & oriental jacinth
 of fine copper. On the cu copper wheel only the diamond , the ruby, sapphire & oriental jacinth are commonly cut
 copper. On the cu copper wheel only the diamond, the ruby , sapphire & oriental jacinth are commonly cut co or
 On the cu copper wheel only the diamond, the ruby, sapphire & oriental jacinth are commonly cut co or polished. The
 cu copper wheel only the diamond, the ruby, sapphire & oriental jacinth are commonly cut co or polished. The tin wheel is
 & oriental jacinth are commonly cut co or polished. The tin wheel is for more tender stones like emerald, amethyst &
 polished. The tin wheel is for more tender stones like emerald , amethyst & others. Mixture of Pewterers Because among the
 The tin wheel is for more tender stones like emerald, amethyst & others. Mixture of Pewterers Because among the fine tin
 emerald, amethyst & others. Mixture of Pewterers Because among the fine tin they quite often mix a half of lead, which renders
 the fine tin they quite often mix a half of lead , which renders the tin deaf, to correct this, they
 quite often mix a half of lead, which renders the tin deaf, to correct this, they mix in latten filings to
 renders the tin deaf, to correct this, they mix in latten filings to render it sonorous. Perfect amalgam Take the most delicate
 to render it sonorous. Perfect amalgam Take the most delicate grais you can & hollow it in the middle. Put in
 it in the middle. Put in an eighth part of ☿ , in & into this, while adding water, rub &
 eighth part of ☿, in & into this, while adding water , rub & wear down your ☾ or ☼ until
 into this, while adding water, rub & wear down your ☾ or ☼ until the substance becomes like paste & even
 while adding water, rub & wear down your ☾ or ☼ until the substance becomes like paste & even harder. Next,
 harder. Next, if you want, eat it away with good aquafortis , if it is ☾ or ♀. Then remelt it,
 want, eat it away with good aquafortis, if it is ☾ or ♀. Then remelt it, having taken it out as
 it away with good aquafortis, if it is ☾ or ♀ . Then remelt it, having taken it out as you
 remelt it, having taken it out as you know. The ☾ will have a tint and, once melted, will leave some
 a tint and, once melted, will leave some grains of ☼ , & the ♀ will be very beautiful & will
 once melted, will leave some grains of ☼, & the ♀ will be very beautiful & will have almost no crust.
 & by moonlight. Which could not be done with another grain that is wetter, for one le must let the sunbeams
 sowing that one makes after that. But above all the grain called pomole in Gascony or baillard in France, makes the
 l credence is given in court. Painters They completely melt orpiment in a glass bottle on very hot ashes, but it
 given in court. Painters They completely melt orpiment in a glass bottle on very hot ashes, but it would be more
 They completely melt orpiment in a glass bottle on very hot ashes , but it would be more appropriate to sublimate orpiment
 hot ashes, but it would be more appropriate to sublimate orpiment in a long-necked matrass as for making garnets. The orpiment
 to sublimate orpiment in a long-necked matrass as for making garnets . The orpiment thus turns red like red enamel &
 orpiment in a long-necked matrass as for making garnets. The orpiment thus turns red like red enamel & one needs to
 as for making garnets. The orpiment thus turns red like red enamel & one needs to first grind it damp because once
 grind. Next, one can br thin it, once dry, with oil & it will make a deep yellow of heightened color.
 make a deep yellow of heightened color. But to prevent orpiment from dying with the other colors & to render it
 is a secret held to be very rare to calcine common salt & to grind it in. Vert de terre is not
 rare to calcine common salt & to grind it in. Vert de terre is not used with oil. Merchant The rule that merchants
 grind it in. Vert de terre is not used with oil . Merchant The rule that merchants are accustomed to keep
 Cros owes from 2nd September 1581, for 1 cane of cambric at 8 livres per canne, I make this -- 8
 Cros owes from 2nd September 1581, for 1 canne of cambric at 8 livres per canne, as appears in the waste
 Andrew’s day next, I make this -- 8 lb t. Counterfeit jasper Thin glass for this effect is very beautiful. Take horn
 I make this -- 8 lb t. Counterfeit jasper Thin glass for this effect is very beautiful. Take horn from which
 jasper Thin glass for this effect is very beautiful. Take horn from which one makes lanterns, quite thin, & underneath make
 lanterns, quite thin, & underneath make the figure of your jasper , cornalines, & other stones, which will be a work
 quite thin, & underneath make the figure of your jasper, cornalines , & other stones, which will be a work more
 underneath make the figure of your jasper, cornalines, & other stones , which will be a work more appropriate than on
 stones, which will be a work more appropriate than on glass , which is too shiny. And the horn presents a
 appropriate than on glass, which is too shiny. And the horn presents a luster & fatty polish like jasper. You know,
 And the horn presents a luster & fatty polish like jasper . You know, as with scrapings of the said horn,
 like jasper. You know, as with scrapings of the said horn , the roses can be imitated. The horn colors for
 You know, as with scrapings of the said horn, the roses can be imitated. The horn colors for this jasper want
 the roses can be imitated. The horn colors for this jasper want to have a base with clear turpentine or spike
 colors for this jasper want to have a base with clear turpentine or spike lavender varnish. And colors matte in body are
 jasper want to have a base with clear turpentine or spike lavender varnish . And colors matte in body are not so appropriate
 appropriate here, although they are very beautiful. One needs to oil the unpainted reverse with spike lavender oil. You can encrust
 very beautiful. One needs to oil the unpainted reverse with spike lavender oil . You can encrust beds with it & on the
 with it & on the joints you can throw the filings of talc or of pins on the fresh cement of the said joints. One needs
 the filings of talc or of pins on the fresh cement of the said joints. One needs to join them with
 of the said joints. One needs to join them with gum ammoniac soaked in vinegar. To better counterfeit mottled jasper, apply wool
 One needs to join them with gum ammoniac soaked in vinegar . To better counterfeit mottled jasper, apply wool with thick
 them with gum ammoniac soaked in vinegar. To better counterfeit mottled jasper , apply wool with thick hairs dyed in diverse colors
 ammoniac soaked in vinegar. To better counterfeit mottled jasper, apply wool with thick hairs dyed in diverse colors & intermingled. After you have layered
 all the colors, scrape oblique lines on them, then layer gold & silver leaf . If you layer on the horn colors of turpentine,
 layer gold & silver leaf. If you layer on the horn colors of turpentine, give it a base of silver or
 silver leaf. If you layer on the horn colors of turpentine , give it a base of silver or of tin
 the horn colors of turpentine, give it a base of silver or of tin leaf. You can also file horn &
 of turpentine, give it a base of silver or of tin leaf . You can also file horn & mix it with
 of silver or of tin leaf. You can also file horn & mix it with strong glue, & layer it onto
 leaf. You can also file horn & mix it with strong glue , & layer it onto the joints of the piece
 & layer it onto the joints of the piece of horn , then even it with a joiner's plane. Stil de
 piece of horn, then even it with a joiner's plane. Stil de grain yellow It is made in Lyon from the juice of weld
 de grain yellow It is made in Lyon from the juice of weld & chalk mixed together or better yet with ceruse, which
 is made in Lyon from the juice of weld & chalk mixed together or better yet with ceruse, which is appropriate
 of weld & chalk mixed together or better yet with ceruse , which is appropriate for distemper and oil. Roses These
 together or better yet with ceruse, which is appropriate for distemper and oil. Roses These are counterfeited either with the scrapings
 better yet with ceruse, which is appropriate for distemper and oil . Roses These are counterfeited either with the scrapings of
 oil. Roses These are counterfeited either with the scrapings of horn used for lanterns , or with scrapings of parchment, very clear & delicate
 scrapings of horn used for lanterns, or with scrapings of parchment , very clear & delicate & dyed & employed as
 color Painters make it beautiful, making the first ground of common azur , or better yet azur d’esmail, & next they glaze
 making the first ground of common azur, or better yet azur d’esmail , & next they glaze it with lake, which will
 better yet azur d’esmail, & next they glaze it with lake , which will be more appropriate for this if you
 will be more appropriate for this if you mix in alum , which gives it a violet tint depending on the
 violet tint depending on the quantity that you mix in. Powder for hourglasses It is made very fine & without being
 by its weight able to flow; taking i lb of lead , melt it and skim and purify it from its
 lead, melt it and skim and purify it from its filth , then pour into it four ℥ of finely pulverized
 from its filth, then pour into it four ℥ of finely pulverized common salt , and take good care that there be neither stones
 common salt, and take good care that there be neither stones nor earth. And immediately after you have poured it, mix
 and take good care that there be neither stones nor earth . And immediately after you have poured it, mix continuously
 you have poured it, mix continuously very well with an iron until the lead and salt are well incorporated, and lift
 it, mix continuously very well with an iron until the lead and salt are well incorporated, and lift it immediately from
 continuously very well with an iron until the lead and salt are well incorporated, and lift it immediately from the fire,
 continuously. And if it seems too coarse, grind it on marble and pass it through a fine sieve. Then wash it
 fine sieve. Then wash it so many times that the water sembl becomes clear, throwing away that little powder which will
 that the water sembl becomes clear, throwing away that little powder which will swim on it, renewing the water so many
 that little powder which will swim on it, renewing the water so many times that it stays entirely uniform. For painting
 many times that it stays entirely uniform. For painting in oil on taffeta without the oil running One needs to make
 that it stays entirely uniform. For painting in oil on taffeta without the oil running One needs to make a layer
 entirely uniform. For painting in oil on taffeta without the oil running One needs to make a layer of batture, which
 the oil running One needs to make a layer of batture , which is made of well-cooked honey & turpentine of
 layer of batture, which is made of well-cooked honey & turpentine of strong glue soaked for 24 hours in water then
 batture, which is made of well-cooked honey & turpentine of strong glue soaked for 24 hours in water then gently brought to
 & turpentine of strong glue soaked for 24 hours in water then gently brought to boil so that it is hardly
 that it is hardly strong. Next stir in a little honey to soften it, & make it boil all together. And
 soon be dry, you will be able to paint in oil , which will soften the layer even more, and which
 which can also serve you to make a seat for gold . Alum water also keeps oil from running. Seat for
 can also serve you to make a seat for gold. Alum water also keeps oil from running. Seat for gold leaf on
 to make a seat for gold. Alum water also keeps oil from running. Seat for gold leaf on parchment or paper
 gold. Alum water also keeps oil from running. Seat for gold leaf on parchment or paper Make very clear starch glue &
 also keeps oil from running. Seat for gold leaf on parchment or paper Make very clear starch glue & which does
 oil from running. Seat for gold leaf on parchment or paper Make very clear starch glue & which does not show
 for gold leaf on parchment or paper Make very clear starch glue & which does not show itself to have body. And
 on the last, once it is half dried, apply your gold . For cleaning gold leaf applied to iron Rub your
 once it is half dried, apply your gold. For cleaning gold leaf applied to iron Rub your weapons or other gilt objects
 dried, apply your gold. For cleaning gold leaf applied to iron Rub your weapons or other gilt objects with dry horse
 to iron Rub your weapons or other gilt objects with dry horse dung . For whitening ceruse Hard-boil eggs, divide them in half
 or other gilt objects with dry horse dung. For whitening ceruse Hard-boil eggs, divide them in half & take the yolk
 gilt objects with dry horse dung. For whitening ceruse Hard-boil eggs, divide them in half & take the yolk out, & between the two halves of the white put a piece of ceruse, & tie them together with
 the two halves of the white put a piece of ceruse , & tie them together with thread. Then boil in
 ceruse, & tie them together with thread. Then boil in clear water , & it will become entirely black, & thus the
 water, & it will become entirely black, & thus the ceruse will be left well purified. Some reheat it over fire
 reheat it over fire & it becomes very white. Painting esmail d’azur in oil This is a secret that is hardly known
 fire & it becomes very white. Painting esmail d’azur in oil This is a secret that is hardly known to common
 take the most delicate they can & grind it with ceruse , which binds it, and next prick with an awl
 in several places the area they want to paint with azur d’esmail , in order that the oil enters & leaks in,
 want to paint with azur d’esmail, in order that the oil enters & leaks in, & ne does not cause the
 enters & leaks in, & ne does not cause the azure , which in itself is heavy, to run. Others lay
 run. Others lay the panel flat & put down the azure on it, which is also done in distemper. The main
 distemper. The main thing is to grind it well on marble , and before that, to have washed it thoroughly. Some
 washed it thoroughly. Some grind it with thoroughly with an egg yolk & then wash it in five or six waters and
 egg yolk & then wash it in five or six waters and lay it on not with a paintbrush, which would
 it evens out and flattens. I have experienced that grinding azur d’esmail with egg yolk & next washing it in several waters
 and flattens. I have experienced that grinding azur d’esmail with egg yolk & next washing it in several waters is good. However,
 d’esmail with egg yolk & next washing it in several waters is good. However, it loses a little of its vividness
 grinding of it. I have also washed it in several waters &, when it had settled a little, I removed the
 &, when it had settled a little, I removed the water , still q blue, with a sponge and squeezed it
 I had the ash, flower, and subtlest part of the azure without grinding it, which is the best, for in the
 tint. Those who make it in Germany compound it like enamel , in large pieces which they pestle, & pass through
 pestle, & pass through several sieves & wash. To make azures beautiful, they wash or soak them in a rock water,
 make azures beautiful, they wash or soak them in a rock water , as they call it; it is a water distilled
 a rock water, as they call it; it is a water distilled from mines where azure or vert d’azur is found,
 call it; it is a water distilled from mines where azure or vert d’azur is found, which distills naturally through the
 it is a water distilled from mines where azure or vert d’azur is found, which distills naturally through the veins of the
 is distilled through an alembic par from mineral stones of azure or copper. Azure ashes are only good for landscapes because
 through an alembic par from mineral stones of azure or copper . Azure ashes are only good for landscapes because they
 an alembic par from mineral stones of azure or copper. Azure ashes are only good for landscapes because they die in oil.
 ashes are only good for landscapes because they die in oil . Only true azure holds on. Azur d’esmail cannot be
 good for landscapes because they die in oil. Only true azure holds on. Azur d’esmail cannot be worked if it is
 because they die in oil. Only true azure holds on. Azur d’esmail cannot be worked if it is too coarse. Try it,
 too coarse. Try it, therefore, on the fingernail or the oil palette. If it happens to be sandy, do not grind
 to be sandy, do not grind it except with the egg yolk or, better yet, wash it in clear water & with
 with the egg yolk or, better yet, wash it in clear water & with a sponge remove the colored water after it
 it in clear water & with a sponge remove the colored water after it starts to go to the bottom, and in
 flower, which will be easy to work with. Color of Damascus steel on knives Rub the steel with common aquafortis, mixing the
 work with. Color of Damascus steel on knives Rub the steel with common aquafortis, mixing the said water with earth &
 Color of Damascus steel on knives Rub the steel with common aquafortis , mixing the said water with earth & next rub
 knives Rub the steel with common aquafortis, mixing the said water with earth & next rub the whole with ashes or
 the steel with common aquafortis, mixing the said water with earth & next rub the whole with ashes or sand &
 said water with earth & next rub the whole with ashes or sand & the gold & the silver will touch
 with earth & next rub the whole with ashes or sand & the gold & the silver will touch as on
 next rub the whole with ashes or sand & the gold & the silver will touch as on a touchstone. For
 whole with ashes or sand & the gold & the silver will touch as on a touchstone. For getting rid of
 of eyes or bruising Make two small thin slices of raw mutton flesh , & with a head band, apply to the eyes
 band, apply to the eyes at night. For coating with or mat There is nothing better than the black varnish of furbishers
 make a seat because it dries immediately & makes the gold appear very beautiful. For diamond points for engraving These are
 dries immediately & makes the gold appear very beautiful. For diamond points for engraving These are for tracing what you want
 These are for tracing what you want to draw on stones & engraving, & when these points are fatty & cannot
 are fatty & cannot bite, one needs to rub them diamond against diamond. One rubs them with diamond pumice stone powder.
 & cannot bite, one needs to rub them diamond against diamond . One rubs them with diamond pumice stone powder. One
 rub them diamond against diamond. One rubs them with diamond pumice stone powder . One needs also to unpolish on a lead wheel
 pumice stone powder. One needs also to unpolish on a lead wheel either the stone or the glass on which you
 needs also to unpolish on a lead wheel either the stone or the glass on which you want to engrave, for
 unpolish on a lead wheel either the stone or the glass on which you want to engrave, for the polish, which
 you want to engrave, for the polish, which is like varnish on glass, prevents the diamond or sapphire from biting well.
 to engrave, for the polish, which is like varnish on glass , prevents the diamond or sapphire from biting well. But
 the polish, which is like varnish on glass, prevents the diamond or sapphire from biting well. But This is why it
 which is like varnish on glass, prevents the diamond or sapphire from biting well. But This is why it does not
 This is why it does not bite easily on the nail , which is polished & fatty. But when the polish
 polish is taken off, it bites easily. Polishing wheel of copper Before polishing your stone on it, it is necessary to
 it bites easily. Polishing wheel of copper Before polishing your stone on it, it is necessary to degrease ter it well,
 degrease ter it well, rubbing it with a piece of leather en tour on the flesh side while spinning the wheel,
 not worked on it in a long time. For molding sulfur Sulfur is made beautiful mixed with soot black or with
 worked on it in a long time. For molding sulfur Sulfur is made beautiful mixed with soot black or with pulverized
 time. For molding sulfur Sulfur is made beautiful mixed with soot black or with pulverized sanguine, which renders it harder and stronger.
 Sulfur is made beautiful mixed with soot black or with pulverized sanguine , which renders it harder and stronger. Having let it
 Having let it melt well until it becomes liquid, like oil , mix it with verdigris, and you m will very
 well until it becomes liquid, like oil, mix it with verdigris , and you m will very neatly cast in plaster
 with verdigris, and you m will very neatly cast in plaster a lizard or something else. One ought not to cast
 bubbles, and has settled down well & become smooth like water . The soot black gives it a fine sheen &
 has settled down well & become smooth like water. The soot black gives it a fine sheen & makes it neater. The
 fine sheen & makes it neater. The most beautiful yellow sulfur must be used, for the greyish & lively one is
 in wind & in cold, for it would become porous. Chimolée The terre chimolée, otherwise known as fuller’s earth, with which
 & in cold, for it would become porous. Chimolée The terre chimolée , otherwise known as fuller’s earth, with which they dress
 would become porous. Chimolée The terre chimolée, otherwise known as fuller’s earth , with which they dress the cloth, is excellent for
 otherwise known as fuller’s earth, with which they dress the cloth , is excellent for molding hollow or in relief; &
 beautiful. You can make a hollow form of animals from chimolée & cast lead in it. The work needs to be
 make a hollow form of animals from chimolée & cast lead in it. The work needs to be dried for 4
 it. When you mold & make a hollow form from chimolée , do not press suddenly, but gently, for it would
 do not press suddenly, but gently, for it would crack. Paper The whitest & finest is the best. And when the
 And when the hollow form is quite clean, as of sulfur or cooked chimolée, it is made very neatly. You can
 the hollow form is quite clean, as of sulfur or cooked chimolée , it is made very neatly. You can give it
 neatly. You can give it one or two layers of white with a border of gold to imitate alabaster. And after
 one or two layers of white with a border of gold to imitate alabaster. And after you have applied the white,
 layers of white with a border of gold to imitate alabaster . And after you have applied the white, you can
 gold to imitate alabaster. And after you have applied the white , you can burnish it with the tooth. But in
 for it to be burnished, one needs to temper the lead white with glair of egg & peelings from the fig tree.
 be burnished, one needs to temper the lead white with glair of egg & peelings from the fig tree. Or better, varnish your
 to temper the lead white with glair of egg & peelings from the fig tree . Or better, varnish your work with white varnish. Also,
 from the fig tree. Or better, varnish your work with white varnish . Also, when you are molding with paper, as it
 work with white varnish. Also, when you are molding with paper , as it starts to dry, burnish from the back
 starts to dry, burnish from the back with the tooth. Plaster That from the mountains is greyer, and the the one
 put to use. One needs to finely grind it on marble . After having prepared your hollow form from sulfur or
 it on marble. After having prepared your hollow form from sulfur or something else, & having oiled it & enclosed it
 your hollow form from sulfur or something else, & having oiled it & enclosed it in a circle, temper not too
 enclosed it in a circle, temper not too thickly your plaster with water, & separate it well with your finger, and
 in a circle, temper not too thickly your plaster with water , & separate it well with your finger, and if
 finger, and if it makes pustules, throw on top more powder of the said plaster & grind it with the finger until + + it
 no more pustules. Then cast & sprinkle once again with plaster powder & let it take well, then scrape the powder. Molding
 & let it take well, then scrape the powder. Molding stucco promptly Grind & pulverize finely brick or Armenian bole or
 scrape the powder. Molding stucco promptly Grind & pulverize finely brick or Armenian bole or sanguine & incorporate it with melted
 powder. Molding stucco promptly Grind & pulverize finely brick or Armenian bole or sanguine & incorporate it with melted wax, & thus
 promptly Grind & pulverize finely brick or Armenian bole or sanguine & incorporate it with melted wax, & thus melted, cast
 brick or Armenian bole or sanguine & incorporate it with melted wax , & thus melted, cast like the others on a
 hollow form where you will be able to cast with plaster , pestled paper, or terre chimolée. Finely sieved brick is
 form where you will be able to cast with plaster, pestled paper , or terre chimolée. Finely sieved brick is better, because
 will be able to cast with plaster, pestled paper, or terre chimolée . Finely sieved brick is better, because the bole is
 cast with plaster, pestled paper, or terre chimolée. Finely sieved brick is better, because the bole is too fatty. Cleaning yellow
 or terre chimolée. Finely sieved brick is better, because the bole is too fatty. Cleaning yellow pearls Gently boil them in
 brick is better, because the bole is too fatty. Cleaning yellow pearls Gently boil them in the goldsmiths’ bouteure then, with tripoli
 pearls Gently boil them in the goldsmiths’ bouteure then, with tripoli & a piece of leather, sprinkled on the flesh side
 the goldsmiths’ bouteure then, with tripoli & a piece of leather , sprinkled on the flesh side with the powder of
 piece of leather, sprinkled on the flesh side with the powder of the said tripoli , rub & polish the pearl. For whitening enilanroc Some
 the powder of the said tripoli, rub & polish the pearl . For whitening enilanroc Some think that the ceruse-colored crust
 the said tripoli, rub & polish the pearl. For whitening enilanroc Some think that the ceruse-colored crust which is on top
 polish the pearl. For whitening enilanroc Some think that the ceruse -colored crust which is on top is natural, others say
 ancient lapidaries that is lost, others say that it is refired enamel . And by means of the said crust, several ciphers,
 thus. Once I wished to give it a layer of arsenic ground on marble. However, I experimented without this, and I
 wished to give it a layer of arsenic ground on marble . However, I experimented without this, and I put the
 I experimented without this, and I put the aforesaid thing, enilanroc , in a small iron casket on the fire of
 and I put the aforesaid thing, enilanroc, in a small iron casket on the fire of my goldsmith’s forge with three
 of my goldsmith’s forge with three or four small half-burnt charcoals , and blew only with my mouth. And nonetheless the
 have burst. Once all white, I passed it through my lead tinwheel, where I found it as hard as before, &
 burst. Once all white, I passed it through my lead tin wheel, where I found it as hard as before, &
 a very beautiful polish & could paragon a very beautiful agate for cutting some beautiful face on it & bringing it
 on it & bringing it on the a table of agate of various color. But because this total whiteness did not
 of its natural color, I made a opening in a brick of the exact size of the thing & put it
 I wanted, uncovering up to the red base with a diamond point, and I polished it with small hog bristle brushes
 with a diamond point, and I polished it with small hog bristle brushes and tripoli. I do not know if it would
 and I polished it with small hog bristle brushes and tripoli . I do not know if it would be better
 if it would be better to reheat it under hot ashes , & if it would be good to encase it
 & if it would be good to encase it in alabaster , which is very cold, as I encased it in
 which is very cold, as I encased it in the brick . Flesh color from arsenic Sublimated arsenic, that is to
 as I encased it in the brick. Flesh color from arsenic Sublimated arsenic, that is to say, the white one that
 I encased it in the brick. Flesh color from arsenic Sublimated arsenic , that is to say, the white one that is
 is to say, the white one that is sold as stone , when ground on marble, mixed with vermilion or lake
 white one that is sold as stone, when ground on marble , mixed with vermilion or lake or minium, makes a
 is sold as stone, when ground on marble, mixed with vermilion or lake or minium, makes a beautiful flesh color that
 as stone, when ground on marble, mixed with vermilion or lake or minium, makes a beautiful flesh color that is always
 when ground on marble, mixed with vermilion or lake or minium , makes a beautiful flesh color that is always shiny.
 minium, makes a beautiful flesh color that is always shiny. Yellow arsenic has a very beautiful color, the white one is good
 a very beautiful color, the white one is good in oil and agrees well with the lake. For dyeing Mix sal
 one is good in oil and agrees well with the lake . For dyeing Mix sal ammoniac & vitriol & boil
 oil and agrees well with the lake. For dyeing Mix sal ammoniac & vitriol & boil them together. Then mix in lake
 well with the lake. For dyeing Mix sal ammoniac & vitriol & boil them together. Then mix in lake or verdet
 ammoniac & vitriol & boil them together. Then mix in lake or verdet & azure or similar, & dye. This will
 vitriol & boil them together. Then mix in lake or verdet & azure or similar, & dye. This will not come
 boil them together. Then mix in lake or verdet & azure or similar, & dye. This will not come off unless
 come off unless the animal sheds. Non bona. Polishing of stones Engraved tai stones are not polished on a copper wheel,
 off unless the animal sheds. Non bona. Polishing of stones Engraved tai stones are not polished on a copper wheel, but with brushes
 of stones Engraved tai stones are not polished on a copper wheel, but with brushes and tripoli. Yet stones cut in
 not polished on a copper wheel, but with brushes and tripoli . Yet stones cut in facets and flat are polished
 on a copper wheel, but with brushes and tripoli. Yet stones cut in facets and flat are polished on the aforesaid wheel. Fine sieves of raw
 flat are polished on the aforesaid wheel. Fine sieves of raw silk One makes tammy of raw silk on a loom, to
 the aforesaid wheel. Fine sieves of raw silk One makes tammy of raw silk on a loom, to make fine & delicate sieves. And
 delicate sieves. And for that effect, you must not choose raw silk whitened by sulfur smoke , which renders the silk chas charged with a sticky
 delicate sieves. And for that effect, you must not choose raw silk whitened by sulfur smoke, which renders the silk chas charged
 that effect, you must not choose raw silk whitened by sulfur smoke , which renders the silk chas charged with a sticky
 choose raw silk whitened by sulfur smoke, which renders the silk chas charged with a sticky vapor that would hold the
 chas charged with a sticky vapor that would hold the flour & in the end would prevent it from passing through
 from passing through so well. But choose for that effect yellow raw & natural silk because it is stronger & casts out flour like horsehair.
 & natural silk because it is stronger & casts out flour like horsehair. For knowing the good cendrée of azure for
 silk because it is stronger & casts out flour like horsehair . For knowing the good cendrée of azure for oil
 & casts out flour like horsehair. For knowing the good cendrée of azure for oil The one that accumulates in small clods and
 like horsehair. For knowing the good cendrée of azure for oil The one that accumulates in small clods and is lumpy
 Also the one that is very pale in color, because oil darkens it. Certain sophisticators mix them, but you will know
 know this if you pour some onto a piece of paper & press it & spread it with the finger since,
 it will be even & of one color. Whitening of pearls When they have been applied in embroidery on some garment,
 on some garment, they are greasy & are cleaned in soap water . Toadstone The kind which comes from the head of
 garment, they are greasy & are cleaned in soap water. Toadstone The kind which comes from the head of the toad
 because the candle always tends to melt, however good the tallow they use for it. For walls of earth and rustic
 good the tallow they use for it. For walls of earth and rustic construction Swallows have taught us this craft, making
 have taught us this craft, making their nests out of mud mixed with wisps & stalks of hay or straw to
 this craft, making their nests out of mud mixed with wisps & stalks of hay or straw to make it bond.
 making their nests out of mud mixed with wisps & stalks of hay or straw to make it bond. Therefore, in places where stone &
 or straw to make it bond. Therefore, in places where stone & brick are lacking, one can use earth to make
 to make it bond. Therefore, in places where stone & brick are lacking, one can use earth to make partitions &
 places where stone & brick are lacking, one can use earth to make partitions & walls. And for this, light earth,
 use earth to make partitions & walls. And for this, light earth , which does not form clumps when plowed, but which
 clumps when plowed, but which is as if intermixed with arene , holds first rank, because it can be beaten &
 make it crack & split. But, because such kinds of earth are not found everywhere, those who are on good &
 chevron beams to support boards between which they throw the earth , making each layer one foot thick or thereabouts, intermixing
 foot thick or thereabouts, intermixing it as if S.S.S with branches of heather or similar things, then with beaters of three different forms
 form like A, and with this, one first tamps the earth . Next one uses one which is made of blocks
 the earth. Next one uses one which is made of blocks of wood pointed at the tip & helved to a large stick,
 a large stick, & this one is for pressing the earth well at the extremities and edges of the wall, which
 called the bat, which is for flattening & beating the earth for the last time, as shown in C. Then one
 as shown in C. Then one makes another layer of earth & heather and beats it as was said, & continues
 in C. Then one makes another layer of earth & heather and beats it as was said, & continues thus until
 thus until the wall is complete, which one covers with heather & then with earth. Some m intermix rows of bricks
 is complete, which one covers with heather & then with earth . Some m intermix rows of bricks in the said
 heather & then with earth. Some m intermix rows of bricks in the said wall. They also make the wall tapering,
 Which, when old, whitens, & thereby shows that it has saltpeter in it. That is why, when they fall down, gunpowder
 when they fall down, gunpowder makers profit from them. A Damasked cloth You can damask a cloth with two different colors and
 profit from them. A Damasked cloth You can damask a cloth with two different colors and imitate embroidery without adding anything
 adding anything to it, in this way. Once it is dyed yellow, pounce onto it such a pattern as will please
 pattern as will please you. Then you will baste some string or a thicker cord onto the pouncing and thrust it
 you. Then you will baste some string or a thicker cord onto the pouncing and thrust it into a dye of
 thicker cord onto the pouncing and thrust it into a dye of guesde woad or pastel woad & it will become green, except that which is beneathus
 it will become green, except that which is beneathus the string , which will remain yellow because the green dye will
 is beneathus the string, which will remain yellow because the green dye will not have penetrated there. And you can do thus
 you can do thus with other colors, and instead of cord or string, add some pieces of paltry cloth, cut into
 do thus with other colors, and instead of cord or string , add some pieces of paltry cloth, cut into moresque
 and instead of cord or string, add some pieces of paltry cloth , cut into moresque shapes, on top of the first
 One casts candlesticks and small works in a frame with sand . And after having imprinted the work, one sprinkles it
 And after having imprinted the work, one sprinkles it with flour in order to make the e metal copper or latten
 it with flour in order to make the e metal copper or latten run better. When the sand has been used
 flour in order to make the e metal copper or latten run better. When the sand has been used for a
 the e metal copper or latten run better. When the sand has been used for a month, it is necessary to
 large works such as artillery, bells & similar things in earth , & copper cast in earth makes less of a
 such as artillery, bells & similar things in earth, & copper cast in earth makes less of a crust, and is
 bells & similar things in earth, & copper cast in earth makes less of a crust, and is whiter than the
 a crust, and is whiter than the one cast in sand . The earth is sandy clay mixed with horse dung
 and is whiter than the one cast in sand. The earth is sandy clay mixed with horse dung & cloth waste.
 whiter than the one cast in sand. The earth is sandy clay mixed with horse dung & cloth waste. That which is
 cast in sand. The earth is sandy clay mixed with horse dung & cloth waste. That which is has been used for
 The earth is sandy clay mixed with horse dung & cloth waste . That which is has been used for founding, which
 black, cooked & as if burnt, is cast mixed with artificial sand , & is very good. / To soften & make
 & is very good. / To soften & make the copper run, throw in, once it is melted, a little lead,
 copper run, throw in, once it is melted, a little lead , which does not form an alloy but is found
 surface of the cast. + by the heat of molten metal Casting gold and silver It is necessary that the sand
 the cast. + by the heat of molten metal Casting gold and silver It is necessary that the sand be from
 + by the heat of molten metal Casting gold and silver It is necessary that the sand be from something very
 metal Casting gold and silver It is necessary that the sand be from something very dry & arid & reheated well
 well in the frame, because, if it were humid, like founders' sand , the gold and silver would spatter, & cause damage.
 frame, because, if it were humid, like founders' sand, the gold and silver would spatter, & cause damage. It is also
 if it were humid, like founders' sand, the gold and silver would spatter, & cause damage. It is also necessary for
 spatter, & cause damage. It is also necessary for the earth to drink the metal, for cast gold or silver is
 It is also necessary for the earth to drink the metal , for cast gold or silver is becomes very spongy.
 necessary for the earth to drink the metal, for cast gold or silver is becomes very spongy. That is why it
 the earth to drink the metal, for cast gold or silver is becomes very spongy. That is why it must be
 one sees in spoon handles. Tablets Some are made from boxwood inlaid with ebony, sandalwood, ivory, or gold and silver like
 spoon handles. Tablets Some are made from boxwood inlaid with ebony , sandalwood, ivory, or gold and silver like damascening. Then
 handles. Tablets Some are made from boxwood inlaid with ebony, sandalwood , ivory, or gold and silver like damascening. Then one
 Tablets Some are made from boxwood inlaid with ebony, sandalwood, ivory , or gold and silver like damascening. Then one writes
 are made from boxwood inlaid with ebony, sandalwood, ivory, or gold and silver like damascening. Then one writes on it with
 from boxwood inlaid with ebony, sandalwood, ivory, or gold and silver like damascening. Then one writes on it with silverpoint, and
 inlaid with ebony, sandalwood, ivory, or gold and silver like damascening . Then one writes on it with silverpoint, and next
 on it with silverpoint, and next erases it with a cuttlefish bone by rubbing them. Letter, more legible One cuts the largest
 them. Letter, more legible One cuts the largest pieces of beryl or crystal round on one side & flat on the
 more legible One cuts the largest pieces of beryl or crystal round on one side & flat on the other, then
 flat side on the letter. Stamping If you have some bronze medal & you want to make it very light, make
 it very light, make of it a hollow form of lead , then spread upon it some thin plate of gold,
 a hollow form of lead, then spread upon it some thin plate of gold , or plates of lead or annealed annealed silver, &
 then spread upon it some thin plate of gold, or plates of lead or annealed annealed silver , & set your bronze medal on top & strike
 plates of lead or annealed annealed silver, & set your bronze medal on top & strike with a wooden mallet. Softening
 set your bronze medal on top & strike with a wooden mallet. Softening horn Those who acou mount Agnus Dei &
 medal on top & strike with a wooden mallet. Softening horn Those who acou mount Agnus Dei & make circles from
 Those who acou mount Agnus Dei & make circles from horn for certain little boxes soften ladicte the said circles by
 boxes soften ladicte the said circles by soaking them in hot water and next fashion them on a round or oval-shaped triblet.
 However, it is good to put on an affected ear musked cotton , that is to say, kept in musk, for it
 affected ear musked cotton, that is to say, kept in musk , for it comforts quite well. Toothache Some put a
 musk, for it comforts quite well. Toothache Some put a clove of garlic in the ear which is on the side where the
 the grey one which resembles a small branch. Founding of soft iron Most people consider that iron, once melted, cannot be melted
 small branch. Founding of soft iron Most people consider that iron , once melted, cannot be melted again because they only
 only becomes red-hot. Alchemists undertake to melt it mixed with realgar or lead or orpiment. But without all that, some have
 red-hot. Alchemists undertake to melt it mixed with realgar or lead or orpiment. But without all that, some have found a
 undertake to melt it mixed with realgar or lead or orpiment . But without all that, some have found a manner
 some have found a manner of the melting not only brittle iron , such as the kind used for iron pots, but
 not only brittle iron, such as the kind used for iron pots, but also soft iron such as d that of
 such as the kind used for iron pots, but also soft iron such as d that of pigs & ingots, which is
 round furnace holds two quintals. The miners, to make the iron run, put at the mouth of the melt, two or
 the mouth of the melt, two or three handfuls of wallwort when they want to make the melt run, and this
 want to make the melt run, and this renders the iron wonderfully ductile and flowing. It is also necessary that the
 bellows to be driven by the leaping & running of water as in forges, because in this manner, the bellows run
 run. You will be able to melt two quintals of iron each time and to do this, you will choose the
 caliber of the piece, & temper it, then beat a soft iron piece cut to size, & when this piece is very
 charcoals in the middle of which you will put your iron , not all at once but ten or fifteen lb
 furnace, you will be able to pour into molds & iron or metal shells, which is even better because one iron
 will be able to pour into molds & iron or metal shells, which is even better because one iron attaches to
 iron or metal shells, which is even better because one iron attaches to the other. And it is necessary that the
 that the inside of the mold be well ashed with tempered ashes , in order that it does not adhere to it.
 that it does not adhere to it. Against Go. Soak quince seeds in clear water & of this mucilaginous water make an
 not adhere to it. Against Go. Soak quince seeds in clear water & of this mucilaginous water make an injection. For removing
 Go. Soak quince seeds in clear water & of this mucilaginous water make an injection. For removing fine hair from the forehead
 fine hair from the forehead Take a needle’s worth of fine silk & pass it tightly across the places with the hair
 places with the hair & it will attach to the silk like fine cotton wisps. Silk Crimson is more abundant than
 the hair & it will attach to the silk like fine cotton wisps . Silk Crimson is more abundant than all other silks
 it will attach to the silk like fine cotton wisps. Silk Crimson is more abundant than all other silks because its
 will attach to the silk like fine cotton wisps. Silk Crimson is more abundant than all other silks because its color
 cotton wisps. Silk Crimson is more abundant than all other silks because its color does not charge as do blue &
 worker. Black is less abundant because it charges much. Keeping oranges One needs to choose quite whole ones which are not
 rotten & put them & fill a well closed and tin vessel with them & they will keep six months. Candles
 they will keep six months. Candles They keep well in bran which makes them white & long-lasting, so say some. I
 not pressed together. It is better if there is a hemp thread throughout the wick, which gives it more light & makes
 wick hold up straighter. Otherwise, if it is all of cotton , as those of Montauban make, it is necessary to
 often, for after it has burnt il a little, the cotton droops & makes the candle drip. On the gunner The
 is to give it a charge of xx lb of fine arquebus powder instead of ordinary cannon powder. And four good horses are
 charge of xx lb of fine arquebus powder instead of ordinary cannon powder . And four good horses are sufficient to drag them.
 are short. For that which gives great strength to the powder & puts the piece in danger of bursting is the
 of bursting is the length of the piece, because the powder is burned entirely before exiting, & the its impetuosity is
 say that they are composed of a sufficient quantity of rosette . If not, they are only of metal, which shows
 sufficient quantity of rosette. If not, they are only of metal , which shows up whitish. If they themselves do not
 The good alloy for pieces is of three parts of rosette & one of the fine metal of la large bells,
 is of three parts of rosette & one of the fine metal of la large bells , where there is more rosette than in the metal
 fine metal of la large bells, where there is more rosette than in the metal of small bells. The metal commonly
 large bells, where there is more rosette than in the metal of small bells . The metal commonly costs xv lb & fine rosette
 more rosette than in the metal of small bells. The metal commonly costs xv lb & fine rosette xv or xvi.
 of small bells. The metal commonly costs xv lb & fine rosette xv or xvi. The pan of Montpellier is equivalent to
 hundred paces, but it is necessary to give it more powder . Its common load is p of xx lb of
 powder. Its common load is p of xx lb of powder , its ball of 40 lb. One needs xxv horses
 its usual range, one puts in a half ladle of cannon powder more. A cannon can fire 4xx or a hundred shots
 necessary to refresh it as often. For two quintals of copper , or two quintals & a half if it is
 it is for large cannons, one puts one quintal of metal . # The metal is composed at the beginning of
 large cannons, one puts one quintal of metal. # The metal is composed at the beginning of eight lb of tin
 metal is composed at the beginning of eight lb of tin for one quintal of rosette, while for large bells one
 beginning of eight lb of tin for one quintal of rosette , while for large bells one only puts six lb
 while for large bells one only puts six lb of fine tin for one quintal of rosette, to give it a bigger
 puts six lb of fine tin for one quintal of rosette , to give it a bigger voice. For the more
 rosette, to give it a bigger voice. For the more tin there is, the clearer the sound is. Its For gun
 Its For gun founding, if one provides the material & charcoal , as one commonly does, for masters do not have
 of a ball. Ain One gives it two ladles of cannon powder for its charge, & one & a half of arquebus
 powder for its charge, & one & a half of arquebus powder , & the same for the others. # The composition
 composition of cannons of France is of one quintal of metal for two of rosette. But those of Toulouse & Poncet
 France is of one quintal of metal for two of rosette . But those of Toulouse & Poncet puts iii of
 rosette. But those of Toulouse & Poncet puts iii of rosette & one of metal. The rosette for re-melting is more
 Toulouse & Poncet puts iii of rosette & one of metal . The rosette for re-melting is more profitable than cauldrons,
 Poncet puts iii of rosette & one of metal. The rosette for re-melting is more profitable than cauldrons, which turn entirely
 re-melting is more profitable than cauldrons, which turn entirely into filth . Old pieces are composed of almost de dem as
 of one as of the other, namely one part of rosette & one of metal. One recognizes this composition with a
 the other, namely one part of rosette & one of metal . One recognizes this composition with a burin. For its
 than average, for to these, one adds a little more metal in order that the melt runs better. And for two
 that the melt runs better. And for two quintals of rosette , one adds six twenties lb of metal for the
 two quintals of rosette, one adds six twenties lb of metal for the smaller pieces. They shoot 8 or 9 hundred
 point blank, & up to a thousand paces if the powder is strong, & half a league at range. Some invented
 of cannons with cartouches. Some po do not put the powder in the cannon all in one go but in two
 for large pieces which are loaded with a lot of powder . The bastarde, which is a culverin middle-sized piece, weighs
 and carries as its charge x or xii lb of powder . Its proportion is at the breech the thickness of
 fire at some cavalry quite far off, one increases the powder a little. A tail of smoke follows the ball which
 off, one increases the powder a little. A tail of smoke follows the ball which de guides your sight e to
 or 9 lb & its charge is six pounds of powder . And for At the breech it carries a thickness
 bastarde. To cannons & large pieces one givesn as much powder as is the diameter of a ball & a half,
 such as field pieces, & smaller ones, one gives them powder the thickness of two balls. To the passe-volant & other
 To the passe-volant & other smaller ones, one gives them powder the thickness of three balls. In general, one charges all
 quintals de char, and one gives them two ladles of cannon powder or one & a half of arquebus powder. To smaller
 ladles of cannon powder or one & a half of arquebus powder . To smaller ones, one only gives one ladle, &
 or vii lb & its charge is 4 lb of powder . At the breech it has three balls & two
 &, for its charge, a lb & a half of powder . At the breech it has three balls & two
 & a quarter, its charge is half a lb of powder . At the breech three balls, at the front, two.
 weighs half a lb. Their charge is a quarter of powder . It is loaded either with a ladle, but more
 trunnion, which is the point of departure of the lit powder . The strength of the berche is at the maslée,
 balls, two in front. One loads it with as much powder as ball, up to the top of the escutcheon, which
 small pieces can amount to 3 or 4 balls of arquebus powder . For if one uses cannon powder, one can load
 or 4 balls of arquebus powder. For if one uses cannon powder , one can load it to a thickness of c
 five balls. One needs to understand all of this as iron balls. When one shoots a metal ball, one over-charges by
 all of this as iron balls. When one shoots a metal ball, one over-charges by a quarter ladle because if a
 ladle because if a cannon ball weighs 40 lb, the metal one weighs lx lb. One also takes the gun-sight higher
 lb. One also takes the gun-sight higher when shooting a metal ball. For if one shoots an iron iron ball point-blank,
 when shooting a metal ball. For if one shoots an iron iron ball point-blank, one takes six lines higher when shooting
 shooting a metal ball. For if one shoots an iron iron ball point-blank, one takes six lines higher when shooting metal
 iron ball point-blank, one takes six lines higher when shooting metal balls. A metal ball makes alloyed with copper, in order
 one takes six lines higher when shooting metal balls. A metal ball makes alloyed with copper, in order that it is
 when shooting metal balls. A metal ball makes alloyed with copper , in order that it is not frangible, is more
 is more effective hitting at close range than that of iron . But the iron one hits more fiercely from afar.
 hitting at close range than that of iron. But the iron one hits more fiercely from afar. A simple musket weighs
 for those which are under two quintals, which readily carry lead balls un of the weight of the ball, but of
 of the caliber. However, those which can receive balls of metal or iron do better because they will penetrate more than
 caliber. However, those which can receive balls of metal or iron do better because they will penetrate more than six lead
 iron do better because they will penetrate more than six lead ones. Its charge is up to the escutcheon, namely the
 the escutcheon, namely the length of 4 balls, it carries lead balls, and is for the defence of houses. Of these
 big finger. If you do not have a ruler, fold paper in two five or six times to use it. And
 column, arch, oval, escutcheon correctly without a compass, fold your paper such that the fold e gives you a straight line,
 & a or a line & saturate it well with ink . Then fold again the paper & rub it on
 & saturate it well with ink. Then fold again the paper & rub it on the back & it will print
 In that way la l, A is the line without ink which the paper fold gives you, B is the line
 la l, A is the line without ink which the paper fold gives you, B is the line you have traced,
 as from the right Write as best you can with well-gummed ink on as many little cards as you want to write
 best you can with well-gummed ink on as many little cards as you want to write words. & once each letter
 write words. & once each letter is well saturated with ink , put it down on your paper & rub with
 is well saturated with ink, put it down on your paper & rub with a tooth the back of the card.
 paper & rub with a tooth the back of the card . Clysters One used to give them with leather sleeves
 of the card. Clysters One used to give them with leather sleeves or bags, which for the best result is must
 bags, which for the best result is must be of cat skin which is more mitten-like than any other. And then one
 that it always causes wind at the end. For making millas It is necessary to have millet pilled to remove the
 the end. For making millas It is necessary to have millet pilled to remove the husks and then you will clean
 It is necessary to have millet pilled to remove the husks and then you will clean it well. Next one needs
 quite finely. This done, it is necessary to mix the flour with melted fresh butter and milk, and that there be
 This done, it is necessary to mix the flour with melted fresh butter and milk, and that there be as much of one
 necessary to mix the flour with melted fresh butter and milk , and that there be as much of one as
 manner that it is very light in color, like the dough to make fritters . And you will put in egg yolks according to
 the dough to make fritters. And you will put in egg yolks according to the quantity of flour, so that it amounts
 will put in egg yolks according to the quantity of flour , so that it amounts to two egg yolks for
 the quantity of flour, so that it amounts to two egg yolks for each millas. Then you will put in some saffron,
 so that it amounts to two egg yolks for each millas . Then you will put in some saffron, if you
 yolks for each millas. Then you will put in some saffron , if you like, to give them a little color.
 to have molds, and it is necessary that they be earthenware , in the fashion of the crown of a catholic
 place in the hearth where you want to put your millas , and then you will take your molds and grease
 molds and grease them quite heavily in order that the dough does not stick when it is cooked. Having done that,
 well-cleaned place in the hearth and will put a little flour at the bottom and fill them with the aforementioned dough.
 flour at the bottom and fill them with the aforementioned dough . Next you will cover the said molds with lids
 top. Then having done that, you will put a little hay on the said lids and plenty of embers, and make
 see when it is cooked. It should be hard. Glassworker Glass from Lorraine is smoother & more even than plate glass and it
 Glassworker Glass from Lorraine is smoother & more even than plate glass and it is sturdier & more durable. But commonly it
 glassmakers, having made it, put it when totally hot on straw , which stains it in this way. However, this is
 stains it in this way. However, this is removed with varnish & salt & other drugs that the glassworkers put on.
 in this way. However, this is removed with varnish & salt & other drugs that the glassworkers put on. Glass from
 However, this is removed with varnish & salt & other drugs that the glassworkers put on. Glass from Lorraine is sold
 & salt & other drugs that the glassworkers put on. Glass from Lorraine is sold by the bundle & each bundle is composed
 composed of three tablets. The bundle costs usually x sous. Plate glass is sold in made in France, it is whiter &
 of a frame, because they cannot be set quite evenly. Plate glass is sold by paniers. Every panier contains 24 plates that
 at x or twelve lb. For whitening the face Pestle puffball in cistern water, & no other, & wash with this
 or twelve lb. For whitening the face Pestle puffball in cistern water , & no other, & wash with this whitened water.
 in cistern water, & no other, & wash with this whitened water . This is considered quite singular. And I believe that
 considered quite singular. And I believe that making it from wheat starch & to use it would be even better. Against winds,
 use it would be even better. Against winds, colic, &c Sap squeezed or water distilled from orange peel is excellent against the windy colic. Candied peel, too, is
 distilled from orange peel is excellent against the windy colic. Candied peel , too, is excellent for the winds of the belly.
 belly. And to make a trial of it, having poured foaming wine in a glass, squeeze orange juice on the wine foam,
 a trial of it, having poured foaming wine in a glass , squeeze orange juice on the wine foam, which proceeds
 of it, having poured foaming wine in a glass, squeeze orange juice on the wine foam, which proceeds only from vapor &
 foaming wine in a glass, squeeze orange juice on the wine foam , which proceeds only from vapor & wind, and you
 that the foam will immediately disappear. Also, if you squeeze juice against a candle it will burn all the brighter. Skirret
 takes from it all its goodness. Against burn Pestle an onion with verjuice & leave it to soak like this, then
 it all its goodness. Against burn Pestle an onion with verjuice & leave it to soak like this, then apply it.
 to soak like this, then apply it. Or else, apply black soap on the burn. Experimented. Common saying Bell tower of Rodez,
 A form of regimen Every morning, take two or three eggs laid one or two days ago. Heat them until &
 Heat them until & do not cook them. Take the centers well dusted with sugar. And next drink one finger of
 do not cook them. Take the centers well dusted with sugar . And next drink one finger of wine. And apart
 well dusted with sugar. And next drink one finger of wine . And apart from being nourishing, it makes a good
 are not loaded with a ladle, one charges them with powder up to the escutcheon, which is placed on the piece
 you are within true range, because the force of the powder usually makes it rise. But if you were farther away
 by using the reflection of mirrors or flasks full of water , the assailants light up the breach. The method you
 the breach. The method you know, with a quadrant & plumb line, is very good. Others nail two or three rows
 good. Others nail two or three rows of boards with strong iron pegs on the wooden platform made for mounting the cannon, and
 three rows of boards with strong iron pegs on the wooden platform made for mounting the cannon, and leave empty notches
 an hour. And if with time the violence of the powder loosens the nail with which the piece is spiked, you
 if with time the violence of the powder loosens the nail with which the piece is spiked, you will make a
 carry a lot of ammunition. be One fills them with cart nails , large steel dice, bits of chain & similar things.
 lot of ammunition. be One fills them with cart nails, large steel dice , bits of chain & similar things. And when one
 be One fills them with cart nails, large steel dice, bits of chain & similar things. And when one senses that the enemies
 cause great damage. And to make them worse, one puts coarsely pestling pestled glass either in the molds or in the crucible, when one
 it is good that they be somewhat alloyed with the substance of the pieces in order that, holding the blast a little rather than
 the arquebus which has a hole through which one passes iron pegs from under the board. Then, when one wants to
 the front. Its charge is six or seven lb of powder , more than a cannon, namely by two big ladles.
 two pans long. It is charged with xxv lb of powder for at it needs to be full up to the
 better than that of pieces, & for 4 quintals of fine copper there ought to be only one quintal of metal in
 fine copper there ought to be only one quintal of metal in order that it holds the blast, &, bursting with
 It is for putting against a door with a large iron cross in front of the ball, and sonce loaded, it
 sonce loaded, it needs to be covered with a well-sewn thick canvas which should be anointed c all over with turpentine. It
 thick canvas which should be anointed c all over with turpentine . It needs to have four handles, made while it
 is founded, for it is thus easier to place. The iron cross is joined to the mouth with the canvas with
 The iron cross is joined to the mouth with the canvas with which it is covered. To place it, it The
 you see. To place it, one needs three or four iron pegs one pan long & as thick as a finger
 take eight or nine canes
 take eight or nine canes of buckram strip or more if the ditch is larger, and let the
 tower with the muzzle pointing up. One makes two large iron rings & with a bar or two, four men carry
 a charge, namely x lb, & to fill it with flint stones & cart flint stones. One needs to cover it entirely
 x lb, & to fill it with flint stones & cart flint stones . One needs to cover it entirely with waxed canvas
 cart flint stones. One needs to cover it entirely with waxed canvas & rubbed with turpentine & combustible things. This cover is
 to cover it entirely with waxed canvas & rubbed with turpentine & combustible things. This cover is made in order to
 it entirely with waxed canvas & rubbed with turpentine & combustible things . This cover is made in order to secure the
 order that when the fire takes to the cover, the primer powder does not fail. Precisely at the fuse, you will need
 you will need to put in a good quantity of primer powder . Some put a cross of iron on the ball
 good quantity of primer powder. Some put a cross of iron on the ball which exptends beyond the mouth of the
 the petard by two pans. Others only put the ball. powder . When the sausage is full, dip it well in
 is full, dip it well in lightly, to wet the canvas & not the powder, in two parts of vinegar &
 well in lightly, to wet the canvas & not the powder , in two parts of vinegar & of one of
 the canvas & not the powder, in two parts of vinegar & of one of eau-de-vie. Next, let the said canvas
 powder, in two parts of vinegar & of one of eau-de-vie . Next, let the said canvas dry well, and then
 vinegar & of one of eau-de-vie. Next, let the said canvas dry well, and then one needs to join to the
 middle. Next one needs to anoint the entire sausage with very good turpentine , and at whichever end of it you wish to
 giving fire, you can sew a or tightly attach a large strip of canvas one empan wide which should also be well soaked in
 one empan wide which should also be well soaked in turpentine ; & this strip must be split in the middle
 petard. Then one needs to put a lot of tightly-pressed powder onto the touch-hole of the petard. And next, the one
 so much that it is detachedsen. And if there was water in the ditch, one would need to support the sausage
 petards Petards that one wants to place on doors or iron grates are sufficient if they weigh 40 or 50 lb.
 when the ball is founded if you make it from metal , is bound up with the middle of the cross.
 of the cross. Grenades Grenades must be made from the finest metal one can find , for there is fine metal and crude metal. Fine
 from the finest metal one can find, for there is fine metal and crude metal. Fine metal is that of a large
 metal one can find, for there is fine metal and crude metal . Fine metal is that of a large bell, because
 can find, for there is fine metal and crude metal. Fine metal is that of a large bell, because one puts in
 that of a large bell, because one puts in more copper to give it a bigger voice, & for small bells
 a bigger voice, & for small bells one puts more tin to give it a bigger clearer sound. The metal of
 more tin to give it a bigger clearer sound. The metal of a large bell is made one with 3 quintals of rosette & twenty
 a large bell is made one with 3 quintals of rosette & twenty or xxv lb of tin. Tan Each grenade
 3 quintals of rosette & twenty or xxv lb of tin . Tan Each grenade must weigh four to six lb.
 throw them, it is necessary that they be full of powder mixed with coarsely pestled glass. And for a quarter lb
 is necessary that they be full of powder mixed with coarsely pestled glass . And for a quarter lb of powder, one needs
 with coarsely pestled glass. And for a quarter lb of powder , one needs half an ounce of glass which is
 quarter lb of powder, one needs half an ounce of glass which is put with it, in order that on the
 in order that on the face or places where the powder will have its effect, the wounds will be all the
 the wounds will be all the worse for it. The best arquebus powder is required here. The hole needs to be as large
 make it even. Next, you make a well-soldered pipe of fer blanc , which can enter into the hole & enter into
 the width of one finger. You will fill it with good powder , pestled in a mortar & lightly mixed with good
 good powder, pestled in a mortar & lightly mixed with good eau-de-vie or strong vinegar which seems. And when This is done
 in a mortar & lightly mixed with good eau-de-vie or strong vinegar which seems. And when This is done to temper the
 which seems. And when This is done to temper the powder . And to know if it will be slow enough
 allow leisure to throw the grenade without danger, try this powder thus bathed in another pipe. You can keep d your
 shall keep your pipes filled with that bathed and well-compressed powder in a humid place. And nonetheless, you shall have some
 tracks by levelling ditches & others obstacles, such as trees, stone mounds & similar things to make gabions on the way.
 pioneers safe, while behind, they fill the gabions with some earth by means of their shovels. And while one does this,
 a reinforcement inside, in the entire space which contains the powder , and the ball can only a roll up to
 half a foot thick, and one sets them into the earth . The platform is five or six cano feet larger
 that are high & goes running to them. In large A steel touch-hole is put in the cannons in the manner of
 guard duty to defend the pieces. One keeps the small powder magazine, of three or four kegs, separately, A touch-hole at
 with barricades or trenches. And there one goes to get powder in bags or frails. And each piece has its own
 the other end of the ladle, two men ram the powder as much as they can, in nine or ten pushes,
 can, in nine or ten pushes, until they find the powder to be hard & well-compacted. Next, another puts hay or
 the powder to be hard & well-compacted. Next, another puts hay or straw and the r others ram a little. Another
 to be hard & well-compacted. Next, another puts hay or straw and the r others ram a little. Another puts the
 others ram a little. Another puts the ball and the hay -bearer puts in as much of it as before &
 it as before & one rams a little. Some put wooden bungs but this runs the risk of making the piece
 made as you have elsewhere, or else one uses a basan full of flint stones, cart nails & similar. P A
 have elsewhere, or else one uses a basan full of flint stones , cart nails & similar. P A ch cannon must
 or else one uses a basan full of flint stones, cart nails & similar. P A ch cannon must not move unless
 not move unless it has two harnesses, be they of wood or iron. And to furnish the wheels, powder box, and
 unless it has two harnesses, be they of wood or iron . And to furnish the wheels, powder box, and other
 the cannon, one needs seven quintals and a half of iron . Pour les pre The best battery is done at
 drawn more quickly and without making a noise. Others put leather all around the the wheels & also put leather soles
 put leather all around the the wheels & also put leather soles or shoes on the horses’ hooves in order that
 which they make in the middle of the model of paper or otherwise. And this reduction amounts to seven or eight
 mouth. When you bore your piece you make a fluted cast iron box like a bedpost & there ought to be sixteen
 bored from one end to the other, because thus the powder goes off all at once with more force. On the
 larger toward the muzzle. It is necessary to pestle the powder thoroughly & put on top of it either sand or
 the powder thoroughly & put on top of it either sand or cork or better still a fitted plate of wax
 thoroughly & put on top of it either sand or cork or better still a fitted plate of wax thoroughly pestled
 sand or cork or better still a fitted plate of wax thoroughly pestled on top, for it seals precisely & makes
 for greater force. The ball only makes a hole, the powder alone makes more of an effect. One holds that, once
 that carries the marked caliber. Pewterers They deem the best tin is the one that comes in saulmons, which has not
 in this they often make a mixture of leftovers from plates , solder & common tin. And to recognize the best
 this they often make a mixture of leftovers from plates, solder & common tin. And to recognize the best one, it
 often make a mixture of leftovers from plates, solder & common tin . And to recognize the best one, it is the
 the softest. Sometimes in their saulmons they find pieces of iron , stones & similar jumble to cheat on the weight.
 stones & similar jumble to cheat on the weight. The tin from England is so hard that the miners put in lead to
 from England is so hard that the miners put in lead to soften it. The one that comes by way of
 sworn master pewterers, from bonnes villes, add six lb of fine lead on or eight on a quintal of fine tin. The
 of fine lead on or eight on a quintal of fine tin . The others, who work in the countryside, put fifteen
 they can, and to cover up the blackness of the lead they and its softness, they put in looking-glass tin, 4
 of the lead they and its softness, they put in looking-glass tin , 4 lb per quintal, + po which whitens &
 & hardens, and a little six or eight lb of rosette on a quintal to render the plate sonorous. To mold
 To mold platters & dishes, they make them out of pierre porte morte , which is grais, & they turn & polish around
 they make them out of pierre porte morte, which is grais , & they turn & polish around them on the
 & polish around them on the wheel. They melt their tin in an dest iron pot on a charcoal fire, and
 on the wheel. They melt their tin in an dest iron pot on a charcoal fire, and with an iron spoon
 melt their tin in an dest iron pot on a charcoal fire, and with an iron spoon that holds almost a
 dest iron pot on a charcoal fire, and with an iron spoon that holds almost a sufficient quantity for a platter,
 which breaks easily. Then, with a cloth which soaks in water , which they always have beside them, they rub the
 and rub the female mold with it. + When the tin is fine , one adds less glass-looking tin, namely 4 lb per
 it. + When the tin is fine, one adds less glass-looking tin , namely 4 lb per quintal, but if the tin
 glass-looking tin, namely 4 lb per quintal, but if the tin is base , that is to say alloyed with a lot of
 base, that is to say alloyed with a lot of lead , one puts at least five or six lb of
 lead, one puts at least five or six lb of looking-glass tin to it. If there is hardly any looking-glass tin, one
 of looking-glass tin to it. If there is hardly any looking-glass tin , one puts about two or three lb per quintal.
 or three lb per quintal. One puts eight lb of rosette . But if there is a lot of looking-glass tin
 lb of rosette. But if there is a lot of looking-glass tin one, like 4 or 5 lb, one only puts six
 like 4 or 5 lb, one only puts six of rosette . And commonly, per quintal of tin, one adds x
 only puts six of rosette. And commonly, per quintal of tin , one adds x lb of both. Go to the
 adds x lb of both. Go to the fifth leaf. Stucco for molding Take tragacanth gum and put it to soak
 both. Go to the fifth leaf. Stucco for molding Take tragacanth gum and put it to soak until, having drunk its water,
 gum and put it to soak until, having drunk its water , it is swollen & rendered like jelly. Then grind
 having drunk its water, it is swollen & rendered like jelly . Then grind it quite hard on marble & next
 & rendered like jelly. Then grind it quite hard on marble & next take rye flour, which is better than wheat
 Then grind it quite hard on marble & next take rye flour , which is better than wheat because it is more
 marble & next take rye flour, which is better than wheat because it is more humid and does not make the
 does not make the paste as brittle, and sprinkle your tragacanth gum with it, & continue to grind and mix in thus,
 by little, le et mesler legi the very finely sieved flour . And knead it as if you wanted to make
 flour. And knead it as if you wanted to make bread , until you you perceive that it has enough body
 that it has enough body & is as firm as bread dough that one is ready to put in the oven. This
 paste is prepared, rub the hollow form au u with oil , with a brush, in order that the oil penetrates
 u with oil, with a brush, in order that the oil penetrates everywhere to make it release better, and press the
 And if it does not release well, mix in more flour until it has enough body. With this you will mold
 dry within one day. Next, you will apply them with strong glue or paste glue, as you like, and you will be
 day. Next, you will apply them with strong glue or paste glue , as you like, and you will be able to
 you will be able to paint and decorate them with gold & all colors. One makes ceiling ornaments with it in
 the work stays white, it is better to mold with plaster instead of flour. It is true that it is more
 white, it is better to mold with plaster instead of flour . It is true that it is more brittle and
 when it is powdered strong, in a good amount of water so that it is clear, & grind it several times
 times a day for fifteen days. Then pour off the water by tilting, and gather the plaster & grind it finely
 Then pour off the water by tilting, and gather the plaster & grind it finely on marble, & place it in
 tilting, and gather the plaster & grind it finely on marble , & place it in some kind of clean lead
 on marble, & place it in some kind of clean lead vessel, so that no dust & dirt falls into it,
 air & in the serain for fifteen days with its water , and it will become matte, strong, white and light,
 and light, very suitable for making a seat for burnished gold . And this, in powder form, you can mix, instead
 And this, in powder form, you can mix, instead of flour , with tragacanth gum, and your work will be very
 in powder form, you can mix, instead of flour, with tragacanth gum , and your work will be very beautiful. Lacking plaster,
 tragacanth gum, and your work will be very beautiful. Lacking plaster , you can mix in well ground chalk or ceruse,
 very beautiful. Lacking plaster, you can mix in well ground chalk or ceruse, & try bole & similar things. This stucco
 Lacking plaster, you can mix in well ground chalk or ceruse , & try bole & similar things. This stucco with
 can mix in well ground chalk or ceruse, & try bole & similar things. This stucco with the tragacanth gum has
 chalk or ceruse, & try bole & similar things. This stucco with the tragacanth gum has the quality that, yielding when
 & try bole & similar things. This stucco with the tragacanth gum has the quality that, yielding when it is not yet
 like. It is to make an ornament at little expense. Flour is not good in this, but chalk or ceruse is.
 at little expense. Flour is not good in this, but chalk or ceruse is. Color of gold without gold on silver
 expense. Flour is not good in this, but chalk or ceruse is. Color of gold without gold on silver Color your
 this, but chalk or ceruse is. Color of gold without gold on silver Color your applied silver leaf with terre emerita,
 chalk or ceruse is. Color of gold without gold on silver Color your applied silver leaf with terre emerita, and once
 Color of gold without gold on silver Color your applied silver leaf with terre emerita, and once dry, give a coat of
 without gold on silver Color your applied silver leaf with terre emerita , and once dry, give a coat of spike lavender
 with terre emerita, and once dry, give a coat of spike lavender oil varnish and of sandarac. And it will be more beautiful than
 give a coat of spike lavender oil varnish and of sandarac . And it will be more beautiful than tinsel. Layer
 and of sandarac. And it will be more beautiful than tinsel . Layer of burnished gold on paper Make your seat
 And it will be more beautiful than tinsel. Layer of burnished gold on paper Make your seat of starch soaked in water
 be more beautiful than tinsel. Layer of burnished gold on paper Make your seat of starch soaked in water & your
 Layer of burnished gold on paper Make your seat of starch soaked in water & your gold will burnish very well.
 gold on paper Make your seat of starch soaked in water & your gold will burnish very well. Clear starch water
 Make your seat of starch soaked in water & your gold will burnish very well. Clear starch water layered on the
 soaked in water & your gold will burnish very well. Clear starch water layered on the paper, then dried, & repeated in this
 will burnish very well. Clear starch water layered on the paper , then dried, & repeated in this manner 3 times,
 in this manner 3 times, is a good layer for burnished gold on simple paper & has no body. Removing stains Good
 3 times, is a good layer for burnished gold on simple paper & has no body. Removing stains Good eau-de-vie removes them
 gold on simple paper & has no body. Removing stains Good eau-de-vie removes them if you rub the garment with it. Seat
 them if you rub the garment with it. Seat for gold Ground terra emerita with some saffron, all of it tempered
 you rub the garment with it. Seat for gold Ground terra emerita with some saffron, all of it tempered with very clear
 with it. Seat for gold Ground terra emerita with some saffron , all of it tempered with very clear strong glue
 with some saffron, all of it tempered with very clear strong glue & passed through a linen cloth. Extraction of oils Apothecaries
 tempered with very clear strong glue & passed through a linen cloth. Extraction of oils Apothecaries say that anything which does
 strong glue & passed through a linen cloth. Extraction of oils Apothecaries say that anything which does not adhere to the
 does not adhere to the mortar while pestling is oleaginous. Dragon’s blood Take a well chosen tear of it which shows off
 it which shows off its transparent red. And in a glass bottle put the best eau-de-vie you can find, in sufficient
 transparent red. And in a glass bottle put the best eau-de-vie you can find, in sufficient quantity. For it And stop
 dissolve if it is good, otherwise it will become like wine lees . When you want to use it, make a small
 & stop it again each time, then apply it on gold . The good kind of dragon’s blood can be found
 it again each time, then apply it on gold. The good kind of dragon’s blood can be found in large pieces like cake this one
 broken it shows on its edges scales, transparent as ro rouge clair enamel , it is also lumpy in some parts like small
 enamel, it is also lumpy in some parts like small rubies . The eau-de-vie needs to be very ardent & passed
 is also lumpy in some parts like small rubies. The eau-de-vie needs to be very ardent & passed several times. The
 needs to be very ardent & passed several times. The darker dragon’s blood is the best & has more of a tint; it
 is the tear that is found in gr pieces like peas and large hazelnuts which look like . I put it
 that is found in gr pieces like peas and large hazelnuts which look like . I put it in common eau-de-vie,
 large hazelnuts which look like . I put it in common eau-de-vie , mixing in some aquafortis to give it strength. At
 . I put it in common eau-de-vie, mixing in some aquafortis to give it strength. At the beginning the water took
 some aquafortis to give it strength. At the beginning the water took on a slight tint, but at the end there
 but at the end there was only an appearance of tragacanth gum with which I think they adulterate the dragon’s blood. When
 of tragacanth gum with which I think they adulterate the dragon’s blood . When it is applied on burnished gold, it is
 they adulterate the dragon’s blood. When it is applied on burnished gold , it is prone to break. For this reason, some
 prone to break. For this reason, some coat it with turpentine varnish . Cold delays the action of the water and the
 it with turpentine varnish. Cold delays the action of the water and the extraction of the color. And for this reason,
 this reason, one can keep it close to the fire. Lead The best, fattest & softest is brought from Germany and
 mirrors in Nuremberg. Pewterer They also make their molds from metal which lasts longer & molds more cleanly than grais, because
 from metal which lasts longer & molds more cleanly than grais , because the plate comes out without flashing & smooth.
 costs fifteen or sixteen frans. They are mainly made of metal , for basins & ewers & salt cellars & similar
 things which are fashioned. For pints, molds are made with white clay earth mixed with horse dung & cloth waste & well beaten,
 pints, molds are made with white clay earth mixed with horse dung & cloth waste & well beaten, because the pints, being
 made with white clay earth mixed with horse dung & cloth waste & well beaten, because the pints, being sunk in a
 would not be able to release as well from the grais mold as from the earth, which is soft. One makes
 release as well from the grais mold as from the earth , which is soft. One makes the noyau of the
 the noyau of the mold of the said pints in grais . In metal molds, one makes vents and casts all
 of the mold of the said pints in grais. In metal molds, one makes vents and casts all at once, which
 line which comes from the vapor & fumes of the metal that is cast, which is the cause that in that
 lumpy & very often pierced. However they repair it with solder du n, as is said. These fumes are made right
 made right in the middle of the cast, & in grais molds. The plate can be hammered mar to make it
 & plates, they have notches on the spoke of their iron wheels. And when they want to apply any dish or
 loosen & undo with the strike of a hammer the iron wedges that slide along the spokes of the wheel. And,
 work. And next they even it out with ae cutting iron called a plane, the sharp edge of which they rub
 the sharp edge of which they rub with a little putty on leather nailed onto a piece of wood having, and
 edge of which they rub with a little putty on leather nailed onto a piece of wood having, and this in
 a little putty on leather nailed onto a piece of wood having, and this in such a way that the flesh
 & burnished, it would not polish & not burnish the tin , au which would stay white, & not black &
 with the esgrusouer. Then, with a knife or another sharp iron , they scrape the edges of the platters or plates
 other use, has damaged them, they first polish them with emery stone powder , then they finish burnishing & smoothing with the putty.
 stone powder, then they finish burnishing & smoothing with the putty . Otherwise they would not strike neatly. It is also
 having plowed it, put at each foot two handfuls of pigeon dung . Colored waters Distilled urine, distilled vinegar and eau-de-vie take
 it, put at each foot two handfuls of pigeon dung. Colored waters Distilled urine, distilled vinegar and eau-de-vie take on a cerulean
 at each foot two handfuls of pigeon dung. Colored waters Distilled urine , distilled vinegar and eau-de-vie take on a cerulean and
 foot two handfuls of pigeon dung. Colored waters Distilled urine, distilled vinegar and eau-de-vie take on a cerulean and green tint from
 of pigeon dung. Colored waters Distilled urine, distilled vinegar and eau-de-vie take on a cerulean and green tint from pulverized and
 and eau-de-vie take on a cerulean and green tint from pulverized and finely ground aes ustum . And this tincture is red copper in its residue
 tint from pulverized and finely ground aes ustum. And this tincture is red copper in its residue if you distil the
 pulverized and finely ground aes ustum. And this tincture is red copper in its residue if you distil the aforesaid things through
 residue if you distil the aforesaid things through a filter. Varnish resistant to water Flanders varnish, made with turpentine & oil
 distil the aforesaid things through a filter. Varnish resistant to water Flanders varnish, made with turpentine & oil of turpentine or
 the aforesaid things through a filter. Varnish resistant to water Flanders varnish , made with turpentine & oil of turpentine or mastic,
 a filter. Varnish resistant to water Flanders varnish, made with turpentine & oil of turpentine or mastic, can come off and
 Varnish resistant to water Flanders varnish, made with turpentine & oil of turpentine or mastic , can come off and does not hold up in
 not hold up in the rain. But that made with white walnut oil , as you have done, holds in the rain and
 signs that one carries in the rain. Fruit made from sugar One does not paint them with a paintbrush like other
 paintbrush like other s things with moistened color, because the sugar would melt. But one rubs them with color with the
 with color with the finger. Painter Scribes achieve darkening of lake & other colors for garments with egg yolk, but this
 achieve darkening of lake & other colors for garments with egg yolk , but this is trumpery and does not last. Others
 but this is trumpery and does not last. Others glaze reds from minium & others which are not beautiful in oil M using
 reds from minium & others which are not beautiful in oil M using glair of egg, and it appears to be
 & others which are not beautiful in oil M using glair of egg , and it appears to be done in oil. But
 glair of egg, and it appears to be done in oil . But humidity corrupts all this. Brushes Take those that
 used a little by white-limers, for the harshness of the lime & use make them more handleable. Painting from nature One
 to. Painting on glass For blue, they take the coarsest azur d’esmail & grind it on shale, & mix in two or
 they take the coarsest azur d’esmail & grind it on shale , & mix in two or three rosary beads’ worth
 & mix in two or three rosary beads’ worth of rocaille or more, according to the quantity of the work. And
 quantity of the work. And having done their drawing with noir d’escaille (which is painted toward the light with the piece of
 (which is painted toward the light with the piece of glass upright), they lay all their pieces on white paper when
 piece of glass upright), they lay all their pieces on white paper when for knowing by the whiteness of the paper the
 white paper when for knowing by the whiteness of the paper the lighting of their histories and as set down all
 that state. The one who knows to work well in distemper will work well in oil. But, on the contrary, the
 knows to work well in distemper will work well in oil . But, on the contrary, the one who knows how
 contrary, the one who knows how to work well in oil will not work in distemper. For layering gold in distemper
 how to work well in oil will not work in distemper . For layering gold in distemper Common painters & scribes
 well in oil will not work in distemper. For layering gold in distemper Common painters & scribes make batture, that is
 For layering gold in distemper Common painters & scribes make batture , that is joiner’s glue tempered with water on the
 in distemper Common painters & scribes make batture, that is joiner’s glue tempered with water on the fire, moderately clear, mixed with
 & scribes make batture, that is joiner’s glue tempered with water on the fire, moderately clear, mixed with very little honey,
 water on the fire, moderately clear, mixed with very little honey , that is to say a few drops to make
 it they form letters, or that which they want to gild , with a paintbrush, and immediately after layer the gold,
 to gild, with a paintbrush, and immediately after layer the gold , but they never do their work quite neatly, and
 work quite neatly, and if there is a lot of honey it dries only with great difficulty. This layer is undone
 is undone in the rain. Others do better, they temper candy sugar in water and mix it with sanguine that they call
 the rain. Others do better, they temper candy sugar in water and mix it with sanguine that they call cocon, thoroughly
 they temper candy sugar in water and mix it with sanguine that they call cocon, thoroughly ground, adding in a little
 in water and mix it with sanguine that they call cocon , thoroughly ground, adding in a little soap. This is
 that they call cocon, thoroughly ground, adding in a little soap . This is done neatly, & renders gold beautiful if
 in a little soap. This is done neatly, & renders gold beautiful if one uses it as the seat. Mat maker
 of rooms, which they weave almost as fine as the straw phats worn by villagers. And they make them in long
 them in long bands, some the width of ten b straws , others of thirteen. And they work on them mainly
 use, they sew it. But beforehand, they put it in dye and commonly make it in three colors, green, red, and
 sometimes violet. The green one is made in a single pastel woad dye , because green being made from yellow and blue, the
 dye, because green being made from yellow and blue, the pastel woad discharging itself onto the straw, which shows its dark yellow,
 yellow and blue, the pastel woad discharging itself onto the straw , which shows its dark yellow, one obtains bright green.
 yellow, one obtains bright green. For the red, they use alum and brazilwood. For the violet, they use pastel woad &
 obtains bright green. For the red, they use alum and brazilwood . For the violet, they use pastel woad & a
 they use alum and brazilwood. For the violet, they use pastel woad & a little copperas, which browns the blue with its
 For the violet, they use pastel woad & a little copperas , which browns the blue with its black tint. Glassworker
 a little copperas, which browns the blue with its black tint . Glassworker They do not have the invention for making
 a work which one needs to reheat. Nonetheless, try the red from German , which is rouge d’escaille. They make their common red
 which is rouge d’escaille. They make their common red with sanguine , looking-glass tin, rocaille, litharge & a little iron scales.
 is rouge d’escaille. They make their common red with sanguine, looking-glass tin , rocaille, litharge & a little iron scales. The said
 d’escaille. They make their common red with sanguine, looking-glass tin, rocaille , litharge & a little iron scales. The said red
 They make their common red with sanguine, looking-glass tin, rocaille, litharge & a little iron scales. The said red is applied
 red with sanguine, looking-glass tin, rocaille, litharge & a little iron scales . The said red is applied on one side &
 is applied on one side & the other of the glass in order that it has more color; if it were
 only, it would be too pale orange. Founder They buy rosette at xx lb a quintal, which is harder to melt
 xx lb a quintal, which is harder to melt than latten because it is softer. For, the softer the great metals
 than latten because it is softer. For, the softer the great metals # are, the soft more difficult they are to melt.
 are, the soft more difficult they are to melt. The tin for bells , which is fine tin is more and which is
 they are to melt. The tin for bells, which is fine tin is more and which is brittle, is easier to melt
 more and which is brittle, is easier to melt than lead , which is soft. Latten made brittle by the calamine
 brittle, is easier to melt than lead, which is soft. Latten made brittle by the calamine is melted more quickly than red copper. The metal, which
 than lead, which is soft. Latten made brittle by the calamine is melted more quickly than red copper. The metal, which
 made brittle by the calamine is melted more quickly than red copper . The metal, which is the substance of bells, mixed
 the calamine is melted more quickly than red copper. The metal, which is the substance of bells , mixed with tin, and very brittle, is soon melted.
 The metal, which is the substance of bells, mixed with tin , and very brittle, is soon melted. The more silver
 with tin, and very brittle, is soon melted. The more silver is alloyed, the sooner it melts, that is why solder
 silver is alloyed, the sooner it melts, that is why solder is made with it. In Germany they make very light
 candlesticks, it is because they turn them by means of water , but they are breakable. A quintal of per fine
 of water, but they are breakable. A quintal of per fine coppersmith’s rosette is sold for xxx or 40 lb. Another, which founders
 is sold for xii or xv lb. The quintal of metal , six lb. Put in # Gold, silver, copper, latten,
 lb. The quintal of metal, six lb. Put in # Gold , silver, copper, latten, iron. Knife for cutting the nose
 The quintal of metal, six lb. Put in # Gold, silver , copper, latten, iron. Knife for cutting the nose or
 quintal of metal, six lb. Put in # Gold, silver, copper , latten, iron. Knife for cutting the nose or a
 of metal, six lb. Put in # Gold, silver, copper, latten , iron. Knife for cutting the nose or a finger
 metal, six lb. Put in # Gold, silver, copper, latten, iron . Knife for cutting the nose or a finger This
 your hand, and you will place the notch, colored with brazilwood rosette or black cherry juice, upon the nose. The conjuror ought
 you will place the notch, colored with brazilwood rosette or black cherry juice , upon the nose. The conjuror ought not to amuse
 your hands without blowing X Take a small stick of well dried between wicker and cut from it a small piece like a toothpick,
 if you wanted to cover it with them, & your wicker will light, & immediately remove your hands jo thus clasped,
 wanted to cover it, & your little of light p wicker light, by means of the smoke that you are holding
 little of light p wicker light, by means of the smoke that you are holding with your two palms the candle
 two palms the candle will light. Then immediately extinguish your wicker & secretly cast it aside. For making it seem that
 seem that to someone that he has a piece of silver on his forehead Take a token or piece of silver
 silver on his forehead Take a token or piece of silver and wet it and make it hold against your forehead.
 it in your hand & wet your thumb with your saliva then press it quite strongly on his forehead. And thinking
 piece on his forehead due to the coolness of the saliva , he will shake his ears & will get nowhere.
 will shake his ears & will get nowhere. For making blood or wine issue from someone’s forehead or from a wall
 his ears & will get nowhere. For making blood or wine issue from someone’s forehead or from a wall Take a
 or from a wall Take a funnel or funnel of fer blanc which is double-walled in the body d but not in
 example. Then when you want to use it, put in wine or liquid rosette of Brazilwood or black cherry juice, and
 when you want to use it, put in wine or liquid rosette of Brazilwood or black cherry juice, and blocking the hole of the
 it, put in wine or liquid rosette of Brazilwood or black cherry juice , and blocking the hole of the spout the with
 that the funnel is well filled in order that the wine can enter there between the double walls through the hole
 well, making it seem as if you are tasting the wine , suck & draw in a little air, drinking where
 are tasting the wine, suck & draw in a little air , drinking where the little hole is. Next, make one
 one of the close bystanders drink the rest of the wine or cast it aside or let it flow through the
 top edge, because in this way, by the compression of air , the wine will be retained between the double walls.
 because in this way, by the compression of air, the wine will be retained between the double walls. Then with a
 if you pierce the forehead of someone who holds a glass in his hand, and while you pierce, you cover what
 thumb from over the hole on the top edge, the air , being free, will make the wine issue from between
 the top edge, the air, being free, will make the wine issue from between the double walls through the hole marked
 B, & fall through the tip marked C into the glass . But you must make the fellow bend his head
 it to the wall. X How not to break a glass with a log or a large stick X You will
 with which he will not be able to break the glass . Writing cunningly Cut some long strips of fine parchment
 break the glass. Writing cunningly Cut some long strips of fine parchment & mark them according to their order with A B
 have them sewn inside the hem of a shirt of rough cloth , like that of a messenger, who, if you want
 a jewel put inside a box Take a box of boxwood banded with rings, as you see, into which will easily
 and the same box. You must also have a round leather cover of the same length as the box, as you
 you must put at the bottom of the larger box powdered gold or silver , or mercury amalgamated with silver, and then place the
 bottom of the larger box powdered gold or silver, or mercury amalgamated with silver, and then place the little box marked
 larger box powdered gold or silver, or mercury amalgamated with silver , and then place the little box marked B on
 the box on the table, you cover it with the leather box, and making the requisite gestures, you will remove the
 box, and making the requisite gestures, you will remove the leather box, & without showing the inside, will put it on
 small box marked B. Then you will gently place the leather box back, & after saying inhonorificabilitidinitadtudinibus, you will take the
 after saying inhonorificabilitidinitadtudinibus, you will take the top of the leather box with two fingers, and with the clasping it more
 put both on the table, then you will pour the powder or amalgam that is at the bottom of the large
 on the table, then you will pour the powder or amalgam that is at the bottom of the large box, then
 at the bottom of the large box, then replace the leather box with the box inside it, as it was at
 it, as it was at the start. Then, removing the leather box without removing the smaller one, you will show the
 know, and neither did he. For supporting a bucket of water on the tips of three knives laid down without touching
 left to right, the tips will rise. For boiling an egg in cold water without fire Empty an egg from both
 right, the tips will rise. For boiling an egg in cold water without fire Empty an egg from both ends so that
 boiling an egg in cold water without fire Empty an egg from both ends so that nothing remains inside, then fill
 ends so that nothing remains inside, then fill it with quicklime & natural sulfur, then stop the holes with wax &
 that nothing remains inside, then fill it with quicklime & natural sulfur , then stop the holes with wax & put it
 with quicklime & natural sulfur, then stop the holes with wax & put it in water so that it floats by
 then stop the holes with wax & put it in water so that it floats by two or three fingers. For
 For making rabbits come out of a burrow Take some embers in a pot, & having put sulfur on top, put
 burrow Take some embers in a pot, & having put sulfur on top, put it in the burrows & block it
 it with something light. For preventing someone from eating a foodstuff Dry some calf’s foot root, otherwise arum, & sprinkle the
 light. For preventing someone from eating a foodstuff Dry some calf’s foot root , otherwise arum, & sprinkle the foodstuff swith it. There
 from eating a foodstuff Dry some calf’s foot root, otherwise arum , & sprinkle the foodstuff swith it. There is no
 Dry some calf’s foot root, otherwise arum, & sprinkle the foodstuff swith it. There is no danger in this. See Mathiol.
 There is no danger in this. See Mathiol. For transmuting grain from one vessel to another Take two small wooden bushels
 transmuting grain from one vessel to another Take two small wooden bushels of the same size, which should be hollow on
 & on the bottom of the other you will glue kernels of grain with starch such that it will be covered entirely with
 of the other you will glue kernels of grain with starch such that it will be covered entirely with grain, &
 with starch such that it will be covered entirely with grain , & it will seem to be filled with it.
 will seem to be filled with it. Take also a wooden bell into which you will place as much grain as
 a wooden bell into which you will place as much grain as can be held within the capacity of one of
 bushels, and over the top put a simple piece of leather that fits tightly inside the bell. Put all into a
 bushel, then in front of the audience fill it with grain , then put it back in the napkin. Next, leave
 that one there & take the other where the le grain is glued with starch & it will seem to be
 take the other where the le grain is glued with starch & it will seem to be the first one, filled
 it will seem to be the first one, filled with grain . Put it under a hat & place the bell
 without stopping, show the bottom which will be covered with white leather of the color of the wood. Then pretending to show
 be covered with white leather of the color of the wood . Then pretending to show the bushel that is under
 it covered. Then you will command that by invisibilium the grain pass into the bell, which you will have tapped shortly
 shortly before on the table a little strongly, & the grain will fall to the bottom & cover the piece of
 will fall to the bottom & cover the piece of leather . Then lift the hat; the bushel semb will be
 semb will be found empty and the bell full of grain , which you will scrape deftly along with the piece
 which you will scrape deftly along with the piece of leather so that it cannot be seen, & you will very
 pouch. For transmuting a ball into a thimble, cunning of leather Make a small sheath of plain leather, such as cow
 a thimble, cunning of leather Make a small sheath of plain leather, such as cow or morocco , somewhat thick, as tall as three fingers, sewn like
 as large as a double liard. Take one two similar boxwood balls, & let one be hollow & open with a
 Thus, when you want to perform, you will place your leather sheath on the table with the ball that is not
 ball that is not hollow. Pass a stick inside the leather sheath to show that there is nothing there, also show
 which you are holding the stick. Next, you take your leather sheath & place it over the hollow ball which is
 & making it seem as if you are putting some oribus powder over it, you put back the leather mold that contains
 putting some oribus powder over it, you put back the leather mold that contains the ball with the thimble on the
 command it to enter from under the table into the leather sheath. Then, when lifting the leather, the ball seems to
 the table into the leather sheath. Then, when lifting the leather , the ball seems to be the same, although it
 give a bad taste to the food, with the same metal the bells are made of . It is true that founablesders mix in more latten
 made of. It is true that founablesders mix in more latten to make them yellower, to make them more vendable. But
 make them yellower, to make them more vendable. But the latten by itself, & at a mere touch, is stinking &
 at a mere touch, is stinking & of bad odor. Latten does not lose, or only slightly, its calamine in an
 bad odor. Latten does not lose, or only slightly, its calamine in an four à vent when it is melted in
 when it is melted in a crucible, nor in a wood furnace, but it does in a bellows furnace because bellows
 there be space to remove & take it with pincers. Glassworkers’ glass One says that in Lorraine & in Flanders well-made glass
 Glassworkers’ glass One says that in Lorraine & in Flanders well-made glass is made of fern ashes & pebbles, and first they
 in Lorraine & in Flanders well-made glass is made of fern ashes & pebbles, and first they blow a long bubble, which
 in Flanders well-made glass is made of fern ashes & pebbles , and first they blow a long bubble, which another
 lengthwise. Then, having set this long, cleft bubble on a stone or large plate that is in the furnace, a little
 this, they flatten it with a long & thick round iron rod, then they remove it to the annealing furnace. It
 same way in England more beautifully. Near Rouen in France, plate glass is made with some salt of saltwort & pebbles, that
 in France, plate glass is made with some salt of saltwort & pebbles, that is whiter & more delicate than that
 plate glass is made with some salt of saltwort & pebbles , that is whiter & more delicate than that of
 is whiter & more delicate than that of Lorraine. For plate glass can be melted with a candle & not that from
 Thus the middle, whence it is begun, still remains. The glass can be cleft again with the light of a candle
 by wetting, but not as precisely as with the hot iron . Founder The metal whitens the more it is melted,
 not as precisely as with the hot iron. Founder The metal whitens the more it is melted, because the tin does
 The metal whitens the more it is melted, because the tin does not go away but rather mixes in more. And,
 by holding it a long time in the fire, the filth is eaten away, which is what makes it brittle. If
 what makes it brittle. If you want to chase the tin from the copper, after it is quite hot, throw in
 brittle. If you want to chase the tin from the copper , after it is quite hot, throw in saltpeter often.
 from the copper, after it is quite hot, throw in saltpeter often. This only & not the fire separates it, &
 the fire separates it, & purifies it, & eats the filth away. The metal is cast very neatly. The copper is
 it, & purifies it, & eats the filth away. The metal is cast very neatly. The copper is prone to swell,
 the filth away. The metal is cast very neatly. The copper is prone to swell, but because it is soft, it
 stomach which heats it and unstops the liver Take Take wormwood powder , dissolve it in capilli veneris syrup or preserves, &
 unstops the liver Take Take wormwood powder, dissolve it in capilli veneris syrup or preserves, & make with it an opiate of which
 Take wormwood powder, dissolve it in capilli veneris syrup or preserves , & make with it an opiate of which you
 of which you will take once a week on a host soaked in wine . Then you will be able to drink a finger
 Then you will be able to drink a finger of sufficiently tempered wine . This dissipates the phlegm & the winds which arise
 the winds which arise from it. You can take six pepper grains & grate their rinds such that they are smooth, &
 without chewing. This benefits the stomach without heating the liver. Foil backings for the gemstones Once made, one ought not to keep them in any
 one ought not to keep them in any case of iron or metal, for this stains them, but in some box
 not to keep them in any case of iron or metal , for this stains them, but in some box of
 making them white Having made them, put into the mold fresh water well beaten with bran, which should not at all be
 them, put into the mold fresh water well beaten with bran , which should not at all be purged of its
 bran, which should not at all be purged of its flour , so that the water becomes white. And dip your
 at all be purged of its flour, so that the water becomes white. And dip your candles in that, then leave
 with a stake & put in each two or three seeds . Next, take very fine earth & fill the holes
 & put in each two or three seeds. Next, take very fine earth & fill the holes lightly with it. Next, spread over
 for avoiding this, one must moisten them with s a decoction of wormwood . Glassworker Some do not apply gris d’escaille to the
 s a decoction of wormwood. Glassworker Some do not apply gris d’escaille to the glass for painting on glass, but trace on
 wormwood. Glassworker Some do not apply gris d’escaille to the glass for painting on glass, but trace on the clean glass
 the glass for painting on glass, but trace on the clean glass with noir à huile. But it is very necessary that
 painting on glass, but trace on the clean glass with noir à huile . But it is very necessary that the wood be
 noir à huile. But it is very necessary that the wood be rid of grease, for if it has grease, however
 it is very necessary that the wood be rid of grease , for if it has grease, however little, the color
 the wood be rid of grease, for if it has grease , however little, the color will not take on it
 nose or his mouth la, & he breathes on the glass , the color will not take on it. Those who
 discovered the invention of working in small works of soft enamels use only esmail d’azur, which is blue, & esmail colombin,
 of working in small works of soft enamels use only esmail d’azur , which is blue, & esmail colombin, which is the
 soft enamels use only esmail d’azur, which is blue, & esmail colombin , which is the color of purple, which they soften
 which is the color of purple, which they soften with rocaille or leaded glass. As for the yellow, they make it
 the color of purple, which they soften with rocaille or leaded glass . As for the yellow, they make it from silver,
 leaded glass. As for the yellow, they make it from silver , the red from sanguine, as is said elsewhere, the
 the yellow, they make it from silver, the red from sanguine , as is said elsewhere, the black & gray &
 is said elsewhere, the black & gray & shadows with noir d’escaille , either strong or weak, the flesh color with clear
 noir d’escaille, either strong or weak, the flesh color with clear sanguine . The green is made first from yellow, then on
 is made first from yellow, then on top they coat esmail d’azur , either strong or weak, according to whether they want
 to whether they want to make it bright or dark. Yellow Amber It is cut with a file, then one passes a
 is cut with a file, then one passes a certain pulverized salt over it, which an Englishman called desramonet. But I suppose
 an Englishman called desramonet. But I suppose that this was pulverized pumice stone , for it had the harshness of arène. And with
 was pulverized pumice stone, for it had the harshness of arène . And with a taut cord, he polished his amber,
 of arène. And with a taut cord, he polished his amber , then passed tripoli from Bretagne on it with the
 with a taut cord, he polished his amber, then passed tripoli from Bretagne on it with the finger, others with a piece of
 on it with the finger, others with a piece of leather or a cane. Amber loses its color if an unhealthy
 finger, others with a piece of leather or a cane. Amber loses its color if an unhealthy person wears it, &
 it, it needs to be soaked for one night in urine , then boiled a little in it. Sapphire One finds
 one night in urine, then boiled a little in it. Sapphire One finds sapphires that one calls of the trellis, because
 urine, then boiled a little in it. Sapphire One finds sapphires that one calls of the trellis, because they are pierced
 called, in the treasure of Saint Denis, in which the gemstones are mounted without leaf, so as to have the enjoyment
 opinion that these are artificial & that they are of taffer or very clear esmail azuré melted entirely on the sapphire.
 these are artificial & that they are of taffer or very clear esmail azuré melted entirely on the sapphire. The file bites on it
 taffer or very clear esmail azuré melted entirely on the sapphire . The file bites on it as on the beryl.
 the sapphire. The file bites on it as on the beryl . Saffron It is counterfeited & augmented with marigold leaves
 sapphire. The file bites on it as on the beryl. Saffron It is counterfeited & augmented with marigold leaves half-dried, &
 on the beryl. Saffron It is counterfeited & augmented with marigold leaves half-dried, & twisted like a thread , & put in the hottest sun to dry, &
 is mixed, & the said marigold even gives some color. Sapphire Stone cutters sometimes choose old pieces of antique glass in
 some color. Sapphire Stone cutters sometimes choose old pieces of antique glass in church windows, which are much thicker than those of
 are of more lively colors. If it is for souf sapphire , they choose beautiful blue & from such a place
 it is possible. And having cut it in squares with emery , they cut it in bevel & polish it. And
 polish it. And in this manner, they counterfeit very beautiful sapphires . The old esmail d’azur for silver verging on aquamarine
 in this manner, they counterfeit very beautiful sapphires. The old esmail d’azur for silver verging on aquamarine was very appropriate for counterfeiting
 they counterfeit very beautiful sapphires. The old esmail d’azur for silver verging on aquamarine was very appropriate for counterfeiting sapphires, but
 for silver verging on aquamarine was very appropriate for counterfeiting sapphires , but it is scarcely found. One counterfeits aquamarines with
 for counterfeiting sapphires, but it is scarcely found. One counterfeits aquamarines with white glass, but they take it from the bottom
 sapphires, but it is scarcely found. One counterfeits aquamarines with white glass , but they take it from the bottom of the
 glass, but they take it from the bottom of the glass . Amber The orangeish color that is in transparent amber
 but they take it from the bottom of the glass. Amber The orangeish color that is in transparent amber and in
 of the glass. Amber The orangeish color that is in transparent amber and in the other one that has body is not
 crust. But they only polish it, rubbing it with a willow stick or other soft wood dipped into water & dusted
 polish it, rubbing it with a willow stick or other soft wood dipped into water & dusted with tripoli of Brittany, and
 with a willow stick or other soft wood dipped into water & dusted with tripoli of Brittany, and it takes a
 or other soft wood dipped into water & dusted with tripoli of Brittany , and it takes a beautiful polish. If it is
 color, hang it inside a chimney where there is much soot & smoke, and it will take on a reddish-orange color.
 it inside a chimney where there is much soot & smoke , and it will take on a reddish-orange color. Try
 take the most whitish transparent one, and put it under dung to turn it green, like bones. Or smoke it in
 and put it under dung to turn it green, like bones . Or smoke it in a closed space, with the
 it under dung to turn it green, like bones. Or smoke it in a closed space, with the smoke of safre
 bones. Or smoke it in a closed space, with the smoke of safre or manganese & other drugs that you know. Or in
 in a closed space, with the smoke of safre or manganese & other drugs that you know. Or in urine &
 space, with the smoke of safre or manganese & other drugs that you know. Or in urine & distilled vinegar mixed
 or manganese & other drugs that you know. Or in urine & distilled vinegar mixed with colors, or in the vapor
 & other drugs that you know. Or in urine & distilled vinegar mixed with colors, or in the vapor of aquafortis boiling
 urine & distilled vinegar mixed with colors, or in the vapor of aquafortis boiling in copper, or aquafortis boiling with silver & sal
 with colors, or in the vapor of aquafortis boiling in copper , or aquafortis boiling with silver & sal ammoniac. &
 or in the vapor of aquafortis boiling in copper, or aquafortis boiling with silver & sal ammoniac. & some cut amber
 vapor of aquafortis boiling in copper, or aquafortis boiling with silver & sal ammoniac. & some cut amber in facets on
 aquafortis boiling in copper, or aquafortis boiling with silver & sal ammoniac . & some cut amber in facets on a wheel
 aquafortis boiling with silver & sal ammoniac. & some cut amber in facets on a wheel of soft wood with putty
 & some cut amber in facets on a wheel of soft wood with putty instead of emery, & jet also. The salt
 amber in facets on a wheel of soft wood with putty instead of emery, & jet also. The salt called by
 on a wheel of soft wood with putty instead of emery , & jet also. The salt called by the English
 wheel of soft wood with putty instead of emery, & jet also. The salt called by the English de armonic is
 wood with putty instead of emery, & jet also. The salt called by the English de armonic is a mineral salt that resembles marble stone and is
 The salt called by the English de armonic is a mineral salt that resembles marble stone and is a very hard mineral
 the English de armonic is a mineral salt that resembles marble stone and is a very hard mineral with large pieces, like
 & Monserrat. I have experimented by making it boil in lye or corrosive water, it turns reddish on the surface. And
 I have experimented by making it boil in lye or corrosive water , it turns reddish on the surface. And if it
 reddish on the surface. And if it is rubbed against fir & soft wood before it is cooled, it is easily
 the surface. And if it is rubbed against fir & soft wood before it is cooled, it is easily cut. Black color
 it is cooled, it is easily cut. Black color for dyeing Take lye of quicklime & litharge, mix & soak, &
 cooled, it is easily cut. Black color for dyeing Take lye of quicklime & litharge, mix & soak, & you will make a
 cut. Black color for dyeing Take lye of quicklime & litharge , mix & soak, & you will make a tawny
 & litharge, mix & soak, & you will make a tawny dye , & by reiterating it you will make black. Try
 reiterating it you will make black. Try other colors with lye of lime . Against nose bleed and for dyeing Pestle some sorrel
 colors with lye of lime. Against nose bleed and for dyeing Pestle some sorrel or lapathum acutum of the sort that
 of lime. Against nose bleed and for dyeing Pestle some sorrel or lapathum acutum of the sort that is red-veined, which
 Against nose bleed and for dyeing Pestle some sorrel or lapathum acutum of the sort that is red-veined, which is called dragon’s
 acutum of the sort that is red-veined, which is called dragon’s blood , and apply it de to the forehead of the
 of the one who bleeds. This herb is a strong dye & makes beautiful violet. Beautiful artichokes One needs to prune
 undone in the rain like earth. Merchant Those who sell velvet & es other stuffs by retail do not make double-entry
 those who sell in bulk & those who traffic in pastel woad have double-entry books. Scarlets Because one aulne costs seven or
 Scarlets Because one aulne costs seven or eight lb to dye , they use cloths worth seven or eight francs an
 aulne costs seven or eight lb to dye, they use cloths worth seven or eight francs an aulne. But whoever wants
 aulne. But whoever wants something beautiful se la should buy white cloth worth fifteen francs an aulne & have it dyed with
 white cloth worth fifteen francs an aulne & have it dyed with pure scarlet pastel woad & a little cochineal. Black
 worth fifteen francs an aulne & have it dyed with pure scarlet pastel woad & a little cochineal. Black cloth is thin so that
 it dyed with pure scarlet pastel woad & a little cochineal . Black cloth is thin so that the dyeing is
 dyed with pure scarlet pastel woad & a little cochineal. Black cloth is thin so that the dyeing is inexpensive. Goldsmith They
 a little cochineal. Black cloth is thin so that the dyeing is inexpensive. Goldsmith They assemble silver filings with saltpeter which
 thin so that the dyeing is inexpensive. Goldsmith They assemble silver filings with saltpeter which refines it & does not make it
 the dyeing is inexpensive. Goldsmith They assemble silver filings with saltpeter which refines it & does not make it brittle. But
 which refines it & does not make it brittle. But gold filings are assembled with borax or, to save the borax, with
 not make it brittle. But gold filings are assembled with borax or, to save the borax, with lead, which refines the
 gold filings are assembled with borax or, to save the borax , with lead, which refines the gold & softens it,
 are assembled with borax or, to save the borax, with lead , which refines the gold & softens it, for the
 or, to save the borax, with lead, which refines the gold & softens it, for the saltpeter would make it brittle,
 lead, which refines the gold & softens it, for the saltpeter would make it brittle, which silver does not do. This
 softens it, for the saltpeter would make it brittle, which silver does not do. This is why, to save money, goldsmiths
 money, goldsmiths use it to assemble, in order to save borax , which costs viii sous per ounce, & saltpeter x
 to save borax, which costs viii sous per ounce, & saltpeter x sous per lb. When goldsmiths have thus assembled their
 x sous per lb. When goldsmiths have thus assembled their silver filings with saltpeter, a red enamel vitrifies at the bottom of
 lb. When goldsmiths have thus assembled their silver filings with saltpeter , a red enamel vitrifies at the bottom of the
 goldsmiths have thus assembled their silver filings with saltpeter, a red enamel vitrifies at the bottom of the crucible. I do not
 bottom of the crucible. I do not know if the copper mixed in with the silver is the cause. Try for
 do not know if the copper mixed in with the silver is the cause. Try for enamel. Pastel woad It is
 mixed in with the silver is the cause. Try for enamel . Pastel woad It is grown in Lauragais where the
 in with the silver is the cause. Try for enamel. Pastel woad It is grown in Lauragais where the depth of the
 of pastel woad, one ploughs the soil with shovels of iron , as gardeners do. Next, one harrows it with rakes,
 put in the mouth, it gives a taste as of vinegar , or when crumbling & breaking it, it has some
 balls of it. In this, one dyes several locks of wool , and if it dyes fifteen times, it is said
 to 30 times & commonly up to xxv or 26. Enamel Enamel takes more readily on copper than on silver. It
 30 times & commonly up to xxv or 26. Enamel Enamel takes more readily on copper than on silver. It is
 to xxv or 26. Enamel Enamel takes more readily on copper than on silver. It is true that the cut needs
 26. Enamel Enamel takes more readily on copper than on silver . It is true that the cut needs to be
 the cut needs to be well hollowed out & rough. Azure in body & the red called gules, white enamel & dense green
 & rough. Azure in body & the red called gules, white enamel & dense green take to it very well. Having enamelled,
 enamel & dense green take to it very well. Having enamelled , one gilds the foeillages of the engraving. Copper has
 dense green take to it very well. Having enamelled, one gilds the foeillages of the engraving. Copper has a similar hardness
 well. Having enamelled, one gilds the foeillages of the engraving. Copper has a similar hardness for engraving as fine silver or
 the engraving. Copper has a similar hardness for engraving as fine silver or pistolet gold. Colors for illumination on glass In order
 has a similar hardness for engraving as fine silver or pistolet gold . Colors for illumination on glass In order that your
 as fine silver or pistolet gold. Colors for illumination on glass In order that your turpentine colors do not spread, &
 gold. Colors for illumination on glass In order that your turpentine colors do not spread, & hold together, mix in a
 not spread, & hold together, mix in a little of tear of mastic together with the turpentine. Tracing some history on glass If
 in a little of tear of mastic together with the turpentine . Tracing some history on glass If you want to
 of mastic together with the turpentine. Tracing some history on glass If you want to trace some history in intaglio on
 If you want to trace some history in intaglio on glass , you can do it in different ways. Lay your
 glass, you can do it in different ways. Lay your glass pane on, the thinnest you can find, on the printed history,
 can find, on the printed history, & having cleaned the glass well with lye & ash so that it is not
 the printed history, & having cleaned the glass well with lye & ash so that it is not greasy, trace over
 history, & having cleaned the glass well with lye & ash so that it is not greasy, trace over the lines
 not greasy, trace over the lines visible to you with noir à huile or noir d’escaille with the paintbrush; if you want to
 the lines visible to you with noir à huile or noir d’escaille with the paintbrush; if you want to paint with colors
 with colors in the fashion of glassworkers, who wash their glass pane with noir d’escaille & then scrape & clear the parts
 the fashion of glassworkers, who wash their glass pane with noir d’escaille & then scrape & clear the parts which they want
 is necessary for shading. But if you want to make gilt histories on glass with a background of colors, which imitates
 shading. But if you want to make gilt histories on glass with a background of colors, which imitates the basse-taille of
 a background of colors, which imitates the basse-taille of goldsmiths, gild your entire glass pane with gum water or garlic juice
 colors, which imitates the basse-taille of goldsmiths, gild your entire glass pane with gum water or garlic juice or milk of the
 the basse-taille of goldsmiths, gild your entire glass pane with gum water or garlic juice or milk of the fig tree. Then
 goldsmiths, gild your entire glass pane with gum water or garlic juice or milk of the fig tree. Then moisten your printed
 entire glass pane with gum water or garlic juice or milk of the fig tree . Then moisten your printed history between two wet linen
 fig tree. Then moisten your printed history between two wet linen cloths , and lay it down on the gilt glass. Then
 two wet linen cloths, and lay it down on the gilt glass . Then with a pin mounted on the end of
 it, & thus you will exactly trace it on the gilding of the glass . & next you will clear the background & that
 that which needs to be blank with a quite pointy steel awl, & neatly follow once more the lines & accomplish
 your work & make your faces & flesh colors in argent moulu ; then you shall fill the background with azur d’esmail
 in argent moulu; then you shall fill the background with azur d’esmail or verdigris or fine laque platte platte tempered with clear
 then you shall fill the background with azur d’esmail or verdigris or fine laque platte platte tempered with clear turpentine, mixed
 shall fill the background with azur d’esmail or verdigris or fine laque platte platte tempered with clear turpentine, mixed with a little of
 d’esmail or verdigris or fine laque platte platte tempered with clear turpentine , mixed with a little of tear of mastic if
 platte tempered with clear turpentine, mixed with a little of tear of mastic if you want that the colors are more even &
 do not spread. Next, layer on the back of the glass & over the colors a white tin leaf. And once
 the back of the glass & over the colors a white tin leaf . And once this is dry, you can cover the
 leaf. And once this is dry, you can cover the tin leaf of with color to hide your secret. The tin leaf
 tin leaf of with color to hide your secret. The tin leaf gives light to the colors. Thus you will be able
 paint without being at all expert in painting. If your glass pane is bulging as if taken from the belly of
 show all the better for it. When you apply your turpentine colors to your glass panes, first place them on a
 for it. When you apply your turpentine colors to your glass panes, first place them on a hot tile &, once
 it a while on the tile, then lay down your tin sheet. Dye Some take the root of lapathium acutum maius,
 while on the tile, then lay down your tin sheet. Dye Some take the root of lapathium acutum maius, which resembles
 then lay down your tin sheet. Dye Some take the root of lapathium acutum maius , which resembles monk’s rhubarb or sorrel, & with the
 Some take the root of lapathium acutum maius, which resembles monk’s rhubarb or sorrel, & with the root, which is yellow in
 root of lapathium acutum maius, which resembles monk’s rhubarb or sorrel , & with the root, which is yellow in the
 with the root, which is yellow in the summer, they dye thread & similar things. Aquafortis Some put on for four
 the root, which is yellow in the summer, they dye thread & similar things. Aquafortis Some put on for four pounds
 yellow in the summer, they dye thread & similar things. Aquafortis Some put on for four pounds of substance of aquafortis
 Aquafortis Some put on for four pounds of substance of aquafortis four which are in the retort four ounces of common
 aquafortis four which are in the retort four ounces of common water in the receptacle, which is better than putting it into
 than putting it into the retort. One de-phlegms & calcines alum in order that the water does not have as much
 retort. One de-phlegms & calcines alum in order that the water does not have as much dregs. Several make it without
 have as much dregs. Several make it without de-phlegming the alum . Vinegar One holds certain that heating red-hot the mineral
 as much dregs. Several make it without de-phlegming the alum. Vinegar One holds certain that heating red-hot the mineral salt, which
 the alum. Vinegar One holds certain that heating red-hot the mineral salt , which resembles marble & which one calls Cardona salt
 holds certain that heating red-hot the mineral salt, which resembles marble & which one calls Cardona salt in Catalonia & at
 the mineral salt, which resembles marble & which one calls Cardona salt in Catalonia & at the border of Spain, thr &
 throwing it in the all red or quite hot into wine , that it turns it into very good vinegar. Some
 or quite hot into wine, that it turns it into very good vinegar . Some make it with water poured on pomace soured
 turns it into very good vinegar. Some make it with water poured on pomace soured after being pressed by vintagers, but
 very good vinegar. Some make it with water poured on pomace soured after being pressed by vintagers, but it does not keep,
 keep, & spoils in heat & thunder storms. Buttons of vermeilles Because vermeilles do not fear fire, one cuts them into
 spoils in heat & thunder storms. Buttons of vermeilles Because vermeilles do not fear fire, one cuts them into lozenges flat
 one joins them together in a star shape in a paste of ground enamel , next one melts it & one gilds the enamel
 paste of ground enamel, next one melts it & one gilds the enamel with gold leaf which one reheats. Grottos To
 ground enamel, next one melts it & one gilds the enamel with gold leaf which one reheats. Grottos To fill some
 next one melts it & one gilds the enamel with gold leaf which one reheats. Grottos To fill some empty place that
 some sort of hanging rocks, one puts a piece of thick parchment close to the fire, which shrinks & crumples. Then one
 fire, which shrinks & crumples. Then one paints it with distemper , then in oil. Next one affixes it. Cross of
 & crumples. Then one paints it with distemper, then in oil . Next one affixes it. Cross of the commanders of
 affixes it. Cross of the commanders of Malta This beautiful rouge clair which makes the field of the white enamel cross is
 beautiful rouge clair which makes the field of the white enamel cross is blood of fine tear of dragon’s blood tempered
 the white enamel cross is blood of fine tear of dragon’s blood tempered with eau-de-vie or else Indian laque platte, which in
 is blood of fine tear of dragon’s blood tempered with eau-de-vie or else Indian laque platte, which in my opinion is
 fine tear of dragon’s blood tempered with eau-de-vie or else Indian laque platte , which in my opinion is made in Flanders, tempered
 which in my opinion is made in Flanders, tempered with clear turpentine & tear of mastic & laid down on a silver
 made in Flanders, tempered with clear turpentine & tear of mastic & laid down on a silver leaf, not the kind
 turpentine & tear of mastic & laid down on a silver leaf, not the kind which the painters use, but a
 a thicker kind, which is burnished by those who make gemstone foils Av or by goldsmiths, & that gives it this beautiful
 or by goldsmiths, & that gives it this beautiful brilliance. Latten and calamine Founders do not melt latten in a à
 goldsmiths, & that gives it this beautiful brilliance. Latten and calamine Founders do not melt latten in a à vent bellows
 this beautiful brilliance. Latten and calamine Founders do not melt latten in a à vent bellows furnace but in crucibles, for
 for in a à vent bellows furnace & amid the charcoals , the calamine would go away. A Metal Tin should
 a à vent bellows furnace & amid the charcoals, the calamine would go away. A Metal Tin should be pure for
 & amid the charcoals, the calamine would go away. A Metal Tin should be pure for if there is any lead,
 amid the charcoals, the calamine would go away. A Metal Tin should be pure for if there is any lead, it
 Metal Tin should be pure for if there is any lead , it will go up in smoke while melting. Mixed
 if there is any lead, it will go up in smoke while melting. Mixed tin holds in the fire for a
 lead, it will go up in smoke while melting. Mixed tin holds in the fire for a long time but the
 holds in the fire for a long time but the cendrée separates it. Aquafortis If your retort is well luted, you
 fire for a long time but the cendrée separates it. Aquafortis If your retort is well luted, you ought not to
 the cendrée separates it. Aquafortis If your retort is well luted , you ought not to surround it with ashes, which
 is well luted, you ought not to surround it with ashes , which would only get in the way of chasing
 which would only get in the way of chasing the spirits properly. But when, at the end, you give it violent
 order that they do not crackle & do not make smoke . Put the said lit charcoals around the body of
 by doing this not as much of it is wasted. Earth for casting, for founders It renders itself fatty once beaten and also mixed with
 It renders itself fatty once beaten and also mixed with horse dung . Potter’s earth would be too fatty and would crack
 itself fatty once beaten and also mixed with horse dung. Potter’s earth would be too fatty and would crack & would not
 but one needs to mix it with half as much sand and a quarter or a fifth of horse dung. And
 as much sand and a quarter or a fifth of horse dung . And leave it to dry, then turn it to
 of gravel, which would prevent it from casting neatly. The dung renders the earth more amenable & easier to deal with,
 would prevent it from casting neatly. The dung renders the earth more amenable & easier to deal with, but it is
 but it is necessary that it be well free of straw & other things. And when the earth is very fatty,
 well free of straw & other things. And when the earth is very fatty, one needs to give it more sand
 earth is very fatty, one needs to give it more sand & more dung. But one does find fatty earths, in
 fatty, one needs to give it more sand & more dung . But one does find fatty earths, in and of
 it more sand & more dung. But one does find fatty earths , in and of themselves mixed with sand. If they
 does find fatty earths, in and of themselves mixed with sand . If they are not, do it by artifice. One
 do it by artifice. One always needs to reheat the earths before casting. Garden lily If one breaks it at its
 the following year, & I believe bulbous herbs do this. Sand The sand cast for casting should be chosen neither so
 year, & I believe bulbous herbs do this. Sand The sand cast for casting should be chosen neither so lean that
 is not found, you can make it, but not with fatty earth , for the sand does not want it at all,
 can make it, but not with fatty earth, for the sand does not want it at all, for it makes it
 it very porous. But you can give it bond with brick thoroughly ground on marble, or plaster or calcined alabaster or something similar,
 you can give it bond with brick thoroughly ground on marble , or plaster or calcined alabaster or something similar, or
 give it bond with brick thoroughly ground on marble, or plaster or calcined alabaster or something similar, or the burned marrow
 bond with brick thoroughly ground on marble, or plaster or calcined alabaster or something similar, or the burned marrow of ox horn
 or plaster or calcined alabaster or something similar, or the burned marrow of ox horn or burned aspalte throughout. If you grind it quite finely
 something similar, or the burned marrow of ox horn or burned aspalte throughout. If you grind it quite finely on porphyry, it
 burned aspalte throughout. If you grind it quite finely on porphyry , it s acquires hold & then you can burn
 s acquires hold & then you can burn it with aspalte or mix it with a quarter part of tripoli. Guard
 with aspalte or mix it with a quarter part of tripoli . Guard against bread falling into your sand because it
 mix it with a quarter part of tripoli. Guard against bread falling into your sand because it makes it very porous.
 quarter part of tripoli. Guard against bread falling into your sand because it makes it very porous. Try mixing in soot
 sand because it makes it very porous. Try mixing in soot black . Ducks Young domestic ones do not grow for a
 if they go into the water. One feeds them with boiled millet grains , crumbling in bread for them and scattering in well
 water. One feeds them with boiled millet grains, crumbling in bread for them and scattering in well chopped lettuces. Glassworkers’ black
 millet grains, crumbling in bread for them and scattering in well chopped lettuces . Glassworkers’ black Iron scale taken from bars that have
 bread for them and scattering in well chopped lettuces. Glassworkers’ black Iron scale taken from bars that have been in the
 for them and scattering in well chopped lettuces. Glassworkers’ black Iron scale taken from bars that have been in the fire for
 time, & which is thick, is much better than that common delicate kind that falls under the anvil in the forge, because it imitates niello. To the said
 falls under the anvil in the forge, because it imitates niello . To the said black, described elsewhere, some add d
 in the forge, because it imitates niello. To the said black , described elsewhere, some add d a little minium to
 the said black, described elsewhere, some add d a little minium to it. Sheared ewes If the shearer sometimes wounds them,
 If the shearer sometimes wounds them, he puts the very dung of the ewe on top. When they are fat, they are easier to
 wife for this would make the sheep die. Colors and gilding on glass One ought not to give as strong gum
 this would make the sheep die. Colors and gilding on glass One ought not to give as strong gum water on
 gilding on glass One ought not to give as strong gum water on glass for the gold layer as for silver layer
 One ought not to give as strong gum water on glass for the gold layer as for silver layer as for
 to give as strong gum water on glass for the gold layer as for silver layer as for the gold layer
 gum water on glass for the gold layer as for silver layer as for the gold layer because a silver leaf
 the gold layer as for silver layer as for the gold layer because a silver leaf is twice as strong as
 for silver layer as for the gold layer because a silver leaf is twice as strong as a gold leaf. Also,
 because a silver leaf is twice as strong as a gold leaf. Also, silver is harder and therefore does not scratch
 leaf is twice as strong as a gold leaf. Also, silver is harder and therefore does not scratch as easily. Q
 therefore does not scratch as easily. Q And if the gum was not a little strong for the silver, the latter
 if the gum was not a little strong for the silver , the latter would not split so neatly. When you
 exhalation of your breath moistens the leaf laid on the glass , & therefore it would be good, while working, to
 colors, for if it were not quite clean of the gum ’s greasiness & viscosity, the & of other things, the
 your works, you can pounce, or, better still, layer the gum & leaf on a cut paper. In this way, you
 better still, layer the gum & leaf on a cut paper . In this way, you will only need to repair
 need to repair very little. If you want to make gold color there without gold, mix soaked dried saffron with a
 little. If you want to make gold color there without gold , mix soaked dried saffron with a little massicot. Founder
 there without gold, mix soaked dried saffron with a little massicot . Founder The mold of earth is reheated until, sometimes,
 dried saffron with a little massicot. Founder The mold of earth is reheated until, sometimes, it is as if red, for
 until, sometimes, it is as if red, for otherwise the metal would spatter & would not do anything good. And similarly,
 on the inside should be very reheated, & mixed with charcoal powder . Wax for seal and imprint For the large wax
 inside should be very reheated, & mixed with charcoal powder. Wax for seal and imprint For the large wax seals, you
 charcoal powder. Wax for seal and imprint For the large wax seals, you need to have tepid water always ready &
 imprint For the large wax seals, you need to have tepid water always ready & apre keep your wax in it. But
 to have tepid water always ready & apre keep your wax in it. But before, it should have been kneaded between
 your hands to render it very uniform, for otherwise the water that would get in between would prevent it from becoming
 whatever you want and put three or four pieces of paper on, & with a stick you even & round like
 to polish it, and it will attach itself to the paper , which will help you lift it off the mold.
 to cast it molten. You can carve the figures & gild them, silver them, & paint them with colors in varnish,
 it molten. You can carve the figures & gild them, silver them, & paint them with colors in varnish, & transfer
 figures & gild them, silver them, & paint them with colors in varnish , & transfer them onto a base of glass painted
 colors in varnish, & transfer them onto a base of glass painted with colors in turpentine & mastic. And if you
 & transfer them onto a base of glass painted with colors in turpentine & mastic . And if you want to apply these plates by
 want to apply these plates by incrustation, do it with gum ammoniac tempered with vinegar, and you will have good glue. For
 plates by incrustation, do it with gum ammoniac tempered with vinegar , and you will have good glue. For casting in
 gum ammoniac tempered with vinegar, and you will have good glue . For casting in plaster Melt some wax, & with
 vinegar, and you will have good glue. For casting in plaster Melt some wax, & with a large brush coat the
 will have good glue. For casting in plaster Melt some wax , & with a large brush coat the relief of
 which qu will form, upon which you will cast you plaster , to give it body and strength. Next, in the
 it body and strength. Next, in the hollow form of wax , you will also cast your plaster in order to
 the hollow form of wax, you will also cast your plaster in order to have your relief, & it will release
 relief, & it will release very easily because of the wax . This is done more for large pieces in high
 in high relief than for others. Pounced design for scratching satin After you have pounced with flour or ground chalk, in
 Pounced design for scratching satin After you have pounced with flour or ground chalk, in order that the dots of the
 for scratching satin After you have pounced with flour or ground chalk , in order that the dots of the pounced design
 the pounced design be not erased, follow the trace with glair beaten with the milk or bark of the fig tree,
 not erased, follow the trace with glair beaten with the milk or bark of the fig tree , which will immediately make it clear up like water,
 fig tree, which will immediately make it clear up like water , & without becoming thick, it will keep the trace,
 will follow again & scratch with d a piece of glass or a penknife. Canvas for painting in oil without breaking
 piece of glass or a penknife. Canvas for painting in oil without breaking In order that your picture in oil does
 in oil without breaking In order that your picture in oil does not break & spoil in the folding of it,
 spoil in the folding of it, make your layer with honey oil, a bit of oil, & water, & flour. Painting
 it, make your layer with honey oil, a bit of oil , & water, & flour. Painting in oil on taffeta
 your layer with honey oil, a bit of oil, & water , & flour. Painting in oil on taffeta which In
 with honey oil, a bit of oil, & water, & flour . Painting in oil on taffeta which In order that
 a bit of oil, & water, & flour. Painting in oil on taffeta which In order that the oil does not
 of oil, & water, & flour. Painting in oil on taffeta which In order that the oil does not run, make
 Painting in oil on taffeta which In order that the oil does not run, make your first layer with honey, alum
 the oil does not run, make your first layer with honey , alum water & starch water. Sand for casting The
 oil does not run, make your first layer with honey, alum water & starch water. Sand for casting The main thing is
 run, make your first layer with honey, alum water & starch water . Sand for casting The main thing is to grind
 your first layer with honey, alum water & starch water. Sand for casting The main thing is to grind it well on marble,
 casting The main thing is to grind it well on marble , & that it be impalpable & mixed with a
 & that it be impalpable & mixed with a little calcined alabaster . For outlining a portrait Follow the lines with lake
 calcined alabaster. For outlining a portrait Follow the lines with lake ground with olive oil, which will not dry. White varnish
 outlining a portrait Follow the lines with lake ground with olive oil , which will not dry. White varnish on plaster Give
 with lake ground with olive oil, which will not dry. White varnish on plaster Give two or three coats of quite white
 with olive oil, which will not dry. White varnish on plaster Give two or three coats of quite white glue for
 White varnish on plaster Give two or three coats of quite white glue for painting. Next, varnish with varnish of sandarac, spike lavender
 coats of quite white glue for painting. Next, varnish with varnish of sandarac, spike lavender oil, and a little mastic . And in the evening put it into a vessel,
 quite white glue for painting. Next, varnish with varnish of sandarac , spike lavender oil, and a little mastic. And in
 white glue for painting. Next, varnish with varnish of sandarac, spike lavender oil , and a little mastic. And in the evening put
 with varnish of sandarac, spike lavender oil, and a little mastic . And in the evening put it into a vessel,
 Then with a paintbrush, it is dry immediately. Pour the oil , which will have taken the substance. Mericotons and pavis
 that it does not freeze too much. White bronzing on plaster One needs to give four layers of painters’ distemper glue
 bronzing on plaster One needs to give four layers of painters’ distemper glue on the plaster portrait, always leaving each layer to dry.
 to give four layers of painters’ distemper glue on the plaster portrait, always leaving each layer to dry. Next, with minium
 plaster portrait, always leaving each layer to dry. Next, with minium from England ground on marble, or burnt lead, grind av & temper
 Next, with minium from England ground on marble, or burnt lead , grind av & temper with a bit of gum
 burnt lead, grind av & temper with a bit of gum or go glue, & coat lightly. Once dry, rub lightly
 av & temper with a bit of gum or go glue , & coat lightly. Once dry, rub lightly with a
 & coat lightly. Once dry, rub lightly with a little cotton and the plaster portrait will seem to be of lead.
 Once dry, rub lightly with a little cotton and the plaster portrait will seem to be of lead. Others grind minium
 cotton and the plaster portrait will seem to be of lead . Others grind minium with quicksilver. Purple ℞ stagno dolce,
 plaster portrait will seem to be of lead. Others grind minium with quicksilver. Purple ℞ stagno dolce, meza onça, farlo fondere
 will seem to be of lead. Others grind minium with quicksilver . Purple ℞ stagno dolce, meza onça, farlo fondere in
 seem to be of lead. Others grind minium with quicksilver. Purple ℞ stagno dolce, meza onça, farlo fondere in un cochiaro.
 be of lead. Others grind minium with quicksilver. Purple ℞ stagno dolce, meza onça, farlo fondere in un cochiaro. Depoi fonduto,
 in un cochiaro. Depoi fonduto, gectarly dentro una ℥ de ☿ , mesedar insieme. Essendo freddo, macinar supra il porfidio. Dapoi
 ℥ de ☿, mesedar insieme. Essendo freddo, macinar supra il porfidio . Dapoi piglia una ℥ de sal armoniaco, una ℥
 freddo, macinar supra il porfidio. Dapoi piglia una ℥ de sal armoniaco , una ℥ de solfo del più giallo que se
 Dapoi piglia una ℥ de sal armoniaco, una ℥ de solfo del più giallo que se possa troval, macinar tutti duoi.
 Dapoi metter tutto insieme dentro un a pignatta sublimatorio di vetro , tenerlo sopra picciol fuoco una hora & una hora
 bonissimo fuoco, et sarà fatto. Dapoi, per adoperarla, datte il negro di resina con colla di pintori da pintar & per doi o
 fatto. Dapoi, per adoperarla, datte il negro di resina con colla di pintori da pintar & per doi o tre volte,
 tanto che sia ben negro. Dapoi datte un poco di vernice . Essendo secco, datte a secco con ditto la purpurina
 di vernice. Essendo secco, datte a secco con ditto la purpurina dove vorrette. Tanto più ne darette, sarà piu bello. Dapoi,
 più ne darette, sarà piu bello. Dapoi, si volete, datte vernice sopra. White bronzing Apply black with glue, as was said,
 si volete, datte vernice sopra. White bronzing Apply black with glue , as was said, on the medal, then varnish. Once
 black with glue, as was said, on the medal, then varnish . Once dry, grate minium from England on top with
 was said, on the medal, then varnish. Once dry, grate minium from England on top with a paintbrush or a finger. The said
 top with a paintbrush or a finger. The said grated minium embellishes lead medals. Varied and transmuted wine Grate brazilwood very
 a paintbrush or a finger. The said grated minium embellishes lead medals. Varied and transmuted wine Grate brazilwood very finely, put
 or a finger. The said grated minium embellishes lead medals. Varied and transmuted wine Grate brazilwood very finely, put it to soak one or
 grated minium embellishes lead medals. Varied and transmuted wine Grate brazilwood very finely, put it to soak one or two hours
 finely, put it to soak one or two hours in clear water , then take this tinted water & add to it
 one or two hours in clear water, then take this tinted water & add to it some clear water & you will
 then take this tinted water & add to it some clear water & you will make e wine as claret colored as
 to it some clear water & you will make e wine as claret colored as you like. If you please, put
 as you like. If you please, put a drop of lemon or orange juice in it & it will immediately turn white. It can
 will immediately turn white. It can be drunk without danger. Pearls It is said that pulverized talc blown into with a
 can be drunk without danger. Pearls It is said that pulverized talc blown into with a lamp renders them thus. Arquebusier For
 the edge of the touch-hole, because in this manner the powder , without blowing, catches & burns all at once &
 the breech is made hollow, as they commonly are, the powder catches sooner in this place, makes it push back, &
 & lower it toward the breech. The weight of the powder must be the third part of the ball. Hail shot
 you want it to go together, set a piece of felt or leather or paper on top, according to the distance,
 it to go together, set a piece of felt or leather or paper on top, according to the distance, & let
 go together, set a piece of felt or leather or paper on top, according to the distance, & let thee piece
 & the ball xviii deniers, the charge vi deniers of powder , its range iiiixx pans & 3 feet lxi &
 easiest, carries a ball of xv deniers, v deniers of powder & a range of lx paces. Pewterer They mix viii
 lx paces. Pewterer They mix viii lb or ten of lead , per quintal of tin in cities where they are
 mix viii lb or ten of lead, per quintal of tin in cities where they are sworn masters. But elsewhere, they
 much as they can. One also uses ii lb of looking-glass tin to bind it & three lb of debris, that is
 of looking-glass tin to bind it & three lb of debris , that is to say the copper shards that coppersmiths
 & three lb of debris, that is to say the copper shards that coppersmiths make . This makes the plate more sonorous and it is
 plate more sonorous and it is not as breakable. This tin is called common tin. Arquebus To keep it from pushing
 and it is not as breakable. This tin is called common tin . Arquebus To keep it from pushing back, it is
 clean your arquebus every eight days, & rub it with oil , & when you fire, wet some linen cloth in
 rub it with oil, & when you fire, wet some linen cloth in oil & put it in instead of paper. Lake
 oil, & when you fire, wet some linen cloth in oil & put it in instead of paper. Lake To test
 linen cloth in oil & put it in instead of paper . Lake To test it, temper it & apply it
 cloth in oil & put it in instead of paper. Lake To test it, temper it & apply it to paper,
 Lake To test it, temper it & apply it to paper , & if one or two hours later it does
 it does not die there, it is fine and good. Dyes from flowers The red poppy, which grows amongst grains, makes a very
 there, it is fine and good. Dyes from flowers The red poppy , which grows amongst grains, makes a very beautiful columbine
 which grows amongst grains, makes a very beautiful columbine on white leather . The cornflower makes a very beautiful blue. A plant
 grains, makes a very beautiful columbine on white leather. The cornflower makes a very beautiful blue. A plant which grows in
 white leather. The cornflower makes a very beautiful blue. A plant which grows in hedges, which has a stem similar to flax, a long & broad leaf like small bugloss, which has a violet flower verging on blue & is shaped like the lily flower , makes a very beautiful turquin, surpassing azure. Another flower,
 makes a very beautiful turquin, surpassing azure. Another flower, the columbine , of the shape & size of the bugloss flower,
 flower, the columbine, of the shape & size of the bugloss flower , which has a petal resembling that of the pansy,
 bugloss flower, which has a petal resembling that of the pansy , also makes a very beautiful turquin. It grows amongst
 beautiful turquin. It grows amongst grains, in light soils. white Horsehair sieves They are made at Coustance in Normandy with horse
 Horsehair sieves They are made at Coustance in Normandy with horse tail hair which they clean with lye because they sort them with
 in Normandy with horse tail hair which they clean with lye because they sort them with the mouth & separate out
 round. They attach to both edges of the reed the hair , either black or white, according to the work they
 ii or three fingers wide between, next they pass two hairs at each step of the pedal and weave with three
 the pedal and weave with three pedals. There are xviic hairs in the entire sieve. They sell them by the dozen
 to Toulouse to transport them afterward to Spain, and take silk tammy in exchange for it . Excellent water against the plague
 and take silk tammy in exchange for it . Excellent water against the plague of Monsieur de Montorsin Take some theriac,
 water against the plague of Monsieur de Montorsin Take some theriac , rue & dittany, & good vinegar, put the whole
 against the plague of Monsieur de Montorsin Take some theriac, rue & dittany, & good vinegar, put the whole in a
 plague of Monsieur de Montorsin Take some theriac, rue & dittany , & good vinegar, put the whole in a glass
 Monsieur de Montorsin Take some theriac, rue & dittany, & good vinegar , put the whole in a glass bottle, leave it
 & dittany, & good vinegar, put the whole in a glass bottle, leave it half-open & well strapped, and put it
 with it. This is a very rare & tested secret. White soporific oil Take x or 12 mandrake apples, put them in quarters
 & tested secret. White soporific oil Take x or 12 mandrake apples , put them in quarters in olive oil, the whole
 x or 12 mandrake apples, put them in quarters in olive oil , the whole in a vial glass bottle which you
 in quarters in olive oil, the whole in a vial glass bottle which you will place in a bain marie for
 place in a bain marie for two days and your oil will turn white. If you rub the soles of your
 feet with the same, you will soon feel like sleeping. Stucco For glueing stone, some do not use poi resin &
 the same, you will soon feel like sleeping. Stucco For glueing stone, some do not use poi resin & black pitch
 same, you will soon feel like sleeping. Stucco For glueing stone , some do not use poi resin & black pitch
 sleeping. Stucco For glueing stone, some do not use poi resin & black pitch resin because it is too fatty, but
 For glueing stone, some do not use poi resin & black pitch resin because it is too fatty, but take rosin & sulfur,
 black pitch resin because it is too fatty, but take rosin & sulfur, as much as of one as the other,
 resin because it is too fatty, but take rosin & sulfur , as much as of one as the other, &
 as of one as the other, & as much of wax as the two together, and mix it with pestled brick
 of wax as the two together, and mix it with pestled brick for greater strength. Others, white chalk or white stone pestled
 and mix it with pestled brick for greater strength. Others, white chalk or white stone pestled & pulverized & sieved. Loading an
 with pestled brick for greater strength. Others, white chalk or white stone pestled & pulverized & sieved. Loading an arquebus with hail
 an arquebus with hail shot One needs to make a wooden pipe as long as the width of 4 or 5
 of the form represented in D A. Then, having cut strong paper, of the as of large printed books , in the form of D, as wide as you
 as you want to make your cartridge long, wrap the paper around the baton B & at the end, where the
 the point F will be, fold all around the said paper , & your cartridge will be formed. But in order
 caliber as your arquebus or pistol, punch round pieces on cardboard or felt or waxed cloth, and put this round piece
 your arquebus or pistol, punch round pieces on cardboard or felt or waxed cloth, and put this round piece into your
 or pistol, punch round pieces on cardboard or felt or waxed cloth , and put this round piece into your cartridge, and
 shot to scatter sooner, make the round pieces out of paper . If you want it to reach farther without scattering,
 to reach farther without scattering, make the piece out of cardboard . If you want even farther, make the round piece
 you want even farther, make the round piece out of waxed cloth , or else of leather or felt, & a piece
 the round piece out of waxed cloth, or else of leather or felt, & a piece of waxed cloth on the
 piece out of waxed cloth, or else of leather or felt , & a piece of waxed cloth on the top.
 or else of leather or felt, & a piece of waxed cloth on the top. And if you make the cartridge itself
 the top. And if you make the cartridge itself of waxed cloth or waxed paper, it will reach one hundred paces &
 if you make the cartridge itself of waxed cloth or waxed paper , it will reach one hundred paces & will make
 make an opening. But if you make your cartridge with waxed cloth or a material stronger than paper, you ought not to
 your cartridge with waxed cloth or a material stronger than paper , you ought not to make so long the part
 of the said arquebus. Thus, when you have put the powder in the charge, which is in the nut, hold the
 the barrel up, and remove the little ramrod. Thus your powder will be entirely in the breech without any of its
 to the sides of the arquebus, which always has some filth in the chamber. Thus it will not push back, and
 knots, on each end of which there should be a plumb hanging from each side. Then look into the barrel along
 & do thus all the way round. For the teeth, oil of sulfur Some people whiten them with confections of aquafortis; however, one
 oil of sulfur Some people whiten them with confections of aquafortis ; however, one says that this corrupts them afterward &
 afterward & causes a blackness on them. One says that oil of sulfur is excellent, but one needs to mix it in this
 take as much clove oil as can be held in a walnut shell, and as
 can be held in a walnut shell, and as much rose honey , & seven or eight drops of oil of sulfur,
 as much rose honey, & seven or eight drops of oil of sulfur , & mix it well all together. And after having
 a small burin, touch them lightly with a end little cotton dipped in the aforesaid oils and leave it there for
 lightly with a end little cotton dipped in the aforesaid oils and leave it there for a little while, then spit
 a little while, then spit or rinse your mouth with tepid water , and reiterate two or three times. Oil of sulfur
 mouth with tepid water, and reiterate two or three times. Oil of sulfur penetrates & is corrosive, and the but the clove oil
 of sulfur penetrates & is corrosive, and the but the clove oil & the rose honey correct it. Therefore use it with
 is corrosive, and the but the clove oil & the rose honey correct it. Therefore use it with discretion. Wheat oil Applied
 the rose honey correct it. Therefore use it with discretion. Wheat oil Applied to hair, it makes it fall out & keeps
 born. Against the falling sickness Take or four or five fresh crow eggs , & the over the space of 4 or five
 of them, and, having mixed in it a bit of powdered gentian & one drop of oil of sulfur, give it to
 it a bit of powdered gentian & one drop of oil of sulfur , give it to the patient. It is held that
 held that the pain will not return. Against cold gouts Oil of guaiac & of sulfur mixed together, applied. Go Flowers of trees Those that are
 ought to leave only two buds on the graft. Scribe, Oil of sulfur If the scribe wants to clean his quill promptly of
 to clean his quill promptly of the thickness of the ink which has dried on it, one only needs to soak
 has dried on it, one only needs to soak in oil of sulfur . And it will immediately be white & clean. Urb.
 Shoemaker If he wants to do some tanned work on black leather shoes, he can dip a writing quill in oil of
 black leather shoes, he can dip a writing quill in oil of sulfur and paint with it what he would like on shoes,
 effort. Urb. Erasing a letter Dip a writing quill in fresh & good oil of sulfur & thus retrace all the letters with the dipped quill
 letters with the dipped quill & they will disappear on parchment . Urb. Writing without ink Write with oil of sulfur
 quill & they will disappear on parchment. Urb. Writing without ink Write with oil of sulfur & heat & the letter
 will disappear on parchment. Urb. Writing without ink Write with oil of sulfur & heat & the letter will turn as black as
 as this one. Urb. Making a letter à jour on paper and other work If you write d or trace something
 work If you write d or trace something on the paper & heat it quite soon, & immediately it will turn
 quill of. Making someone’s boots burn Rub with the aforesaid oil , & as it becomes warm, they will burn without
 becomes warm, they will burn without a flame. Urb. On stone , black letters The same oil on letters engraved in
 without a flame. Urb. On stone, black letters The same oil on letters engraved in stone & heated turns black &
 stone, black letters The same oil on letters engraved in stone & heated turns black & penetrates. For teeth Sal ammoniac
 in stone & heated turns black & penetrates. For teeth Sal ammoniac i ℥, rock salt 1 ℥, alum half an ℥.
 turns black & penetrates. For teeth Sal ammoniac i ℥, rock salt 1 ℥, alum half an ℥. Make water with the
 For teeth Sal ammoniac i ℥, rock salt 1 ℥, alum half an ℥. Make water with the retort, and as
 ℥, rock salt 1 ℥, alum half an ℥. Make water with the retort, and as soon as you touch the
 has a bad odor, but you can mix it with rose honey & a little cinnamon or clove oil. Antimony oil It
 you can mix it with rose honey & a little cinnamon or clove oil . Antimony oil It yellows quite strongly, even silver, if
 with rose honey & a little cinnamon or clove oil. Antimony oil It yellows quite strongly, even silver, if you put it
 or clove oil. Antimony oil It yellows quite strongly, even silver , if you put it on it being heated. Against
 Against falling sickness or vertigo Hung round the neck, wear root of peony which should be picked at the waning of the moon.
 Crucibles Those from Bayonne, which seem to be made of grès are better, for they last, without comparison, longer than others.
 And because they are not very thick, one wastes less charcoal melting gold & silver, for they heat quickly. They do
 they are not very thick, one wastes less charcoal melting gold & silver, for they heat quickly. They do not drink
 not very thick, one wastes less charcoal melting gold & silver , for they heat quickly. They do not drink as
 for they heat quickly. They do not drink as much silver as the others, & for this reason, there is hardly
 the others, & for this reason, there is hardly any residue to be found in them. They are less prone to
 and dysentery Against diarrhea, it is very good to use preserve of symphytum , also called consolida maior. And if it is against
 is very good to use preserve of symphytum, also called consolida maior . And if it is against dysentery, you can rub
 of the hands, & the soles of the feet with wax oil & take one drop or two of it with a
 one drop or two of it with a spoonful of broth . The root of consolida maior, pestled & put between
 or two of it with a spoonful of broth. The root of consolida maior , pestled & put between pieces cuts in a piece
 pestled & put between pieces cuts in a piece of beef , then boiled, rejoins them, as they say. A drink
 them, as they say. A drink having a taste of wine Take tartar from large vessels & soak it in water
 they say. A drink having a taste of wine Take tartar from large vessels & soak it in water & it will have the
 wine Take tartar from large vessels & soak it in water & it will have the taste of wine. Founding Some,
 it in water & it will have the taste of wine . Founding Some, to make it run neatly, put half
 wine. Founding Some, to make it run neatly, put half metal & half copper. Others take one part of potin &
 to make it run neatly, put half metal & half copper . Others take one part of potin & one part
 half metal & half copper. Others take one part of potin & one part of copper latten. Others take one part
 Others take one part of potin & one part of copper latten. Others take one part of candlestick latten & one
 take one part of potin & one part of copper latten . Others take one part of candlestick latten & one
 one part of copper latten. Others take one part of candlestick latten & one part of basin latten. And among basins, the
 take one part of candlestick latten & one part of basin latten . And among basins, the latten of larger ones is
 & one part of basin latten. And among basins, the latten of larger ones is brittler than that of skillets, because
 brittler substance can be taken. In any event, the brittlest latten runs better & casts more neatly, but let it be
 neat hot. One When one wants to cast, one casts lead into the substance, which makes it flow & run &
 which makes it flow & run & goes up in smoke , & keeps the mold from corrupting. And if you
 if you want to cast fire pieces, mix in more rosette than latten, in order that it be less breakable. The
 want to cast fire pieces, mix in more rosette than latten , in order that it be less breakable. The crucibles
 order that it be less breakable. The crucibles for melting metal should be better than those for glassmakers, as glass is
 melting metal should be better than those for glassmakers, as glass is not as heavy as metal. And in this instance,
 those for glassmakers, as glass is not as heavy as metal . And in this instance, one needs to lute the
 heavy as metal. And in this instance, one needs to lute the crucibles with earth and pestled glass. Crucibles Those that
 in this instance, one needs to lute the crucibles with earth and pestled glass. Crucibles Those that are made in winter
 instance, one needs to lute the crucibles with earth and pestled glass . Crucibles Those that are made in winter & humid
 Those of the founders must be thick and must be luted . Casting Finely calcined pumice stone casts 22 carat gold
 founders must be thick and must be luted. Casting Finely calcined pumice stone casts 22 carat gold without repair, but it needs to
 be luted. Casting Finely calcined pumice stone casts 22 carat gold without repair, but it needs to be ablaze and red
 but it needs to be ablaze and red like the metal . And it withstands several casts. Founder The heating For
 heating For a furnace for melting a large quantity of metal Curing dogs of mange Give them a pill of precipitate,
 quantity of metal Curing dogs of mange Give them a pill of precipitate, that is to say iii or 4, or up to
 or 4, or up to 5 grains, mixed with their food . Having given it to them for one one week,
 one week, give them another seven or eight days after. Excellent mustard Dry bread in an oven, then lard it with cloves
 them another seven or eight days after. Excellent mustard Dry bread in an oven, then lard it with cloves & cinnamon
 mustard Dry bread in an oven, then lard it with cloves & cinnamon & thus put it to soak in good
 bread in an oven, then lard it with cloves & cinnamon & thus put it to soak in good wine. Then,
 cloves & cinnamon & thus put it to soak in good wine . Then, pass everything through a tammy cloth, being well
 to soak in good wine. Then, pass everything through a tammy cloth , being well pestled, & incorporate it with your mustard
 tammy cloth, being well pestled, & incorporate it with your mustard seed . Keeping birds and animals skin them Take a measurement
 which is fleshy & more subject to decay, with some canvas that you will cut to their size & width. And
 their size & width. And having cou filled it with cotton & sewn it, skin them, birds leaving, however, the head,
 on the animals, because those dry easily. Then fit that skin on the a you mold made of canvas. Small ones
 fit that skin on the a you mold made of canvas . Small ones are dried in an oven or prepared
 Small ones are dried in an oven or prepared with sal ammoniac & . Extraction of regulus ℞ one lb of antimony,
: dried in an oven or prepared with sal ammoniac &  . Extraction of regulus ℞ one lb of antimony, half
 in an oven or prepared with sal ammoniac & . Extraction of regulus ℞ one lb of antimony, half a lb black soap,
 ammoniac & . Extraction of regulus ℞ one lb of antimony , half a lb black soap, and half a lb
 of regulus ℞ one lb of antimony, half a lb black soap , and half a lb of tartar from Montpellier. Once
 half a lb black soap, and half a lb of tartar from Montpellier . Once the whole is pulverized, one needs to boil
 fire while stirring the whole often with a pick of wood or iron, & the said soap will be consumed and
 stirring the whole often with a pick of wood or iron , & the said soap will be consumed and burn
 with a pick of wood or iron, & the said soap will be consumed and burn off and the rest will
 on the flat tile and then you will have the regulus drawn from antimony. Others pulverize the antimony & mix it
 tile and then you will have the regulus drawn from antimony . Others pulverize the antimony & mix it with saltpeter
 will have the regulus drawn from antimony. Others pulverize the antimony & mix it with saltpeter & pulverized tartar, as much
 from antimony. Others pulverize the antimony & mix it with saltpeter & pulverized tartar, as much of one as of the
 Others pulverize the antimony & mix it with saltpeter & pulverized tartar , as much of one as of the other, &,
 everything is thoroughly melted & melt it again several times. Lead , tin They become brittle having been put back to
 is thoroughly melted & melt it again several times. Lead, tin They become brittle having been put back to melt often
 a way that even when one melts a saulmon, the tin thickens at the bottom if, while casting, one does not
 it often. It is best for casting to melt little lead & the or tin & stir to renew it at
 best for casting to melt little lead & the or tin & stir to renew it at each melt. The antimony
 tin & stir to renew it at each melt. The antimony renders them breakable. The looking-glass tin whitens them. One Pewterers
 it at each melt. The antimony renders them breakable. The looking-glass tin whitens them. One Pewterers put in on the fine tin
 looking-glass tin whitens them. One Pewterers put in on the fine tin one lb of looking-glass tin per one quintal of fine
 Pewterers put in on the fine tin one lb of looking-glass tin per one quintal of fine tin & two lb &
 tin one lb of looking-glass tin per one quintal of fine tin & two lb & a half or three lb of
 & two lb & a half or three lb of red & soft cauldron copper , which is better than latten. There is fine &
 of red & soft cauldron copper, which is better than latten . There is fine & soft tin & brittle tin.
 soft cauldron copper, which is better than latten. There is fine & soft tin & brittle tin. The brittle one is cast in grille
 better than latten. There is fine & soft tin & brittle tin . The brittle one is cast in grille by the
 better. O They come out better & more neatly in stone molds than in a copper mold, because copper is fatty
 better & more neatly in stone molds than in a copper mold, because copper is fatty & sticks unless one heats
 neatly in stone molds than in a copper mold, because copper is fatty & sticks unless one heats the mold well
 mold well or one casts large works. Three quarters of lead per one lb of soft tin, makes a very liquid
 large works. Three quarters of lead per one lb of soft tin , makes a very liquid line & proper for casting,
 proper for casting, which has a shine like a mirror. Sandiver lightens them. And all things that thoroughly lighten metals &
 mirror. Sandiver lightens them. And all things that thoroughly lighten metals & remove their thickness & dense nature & render them
 thickness & dense nature & render them like liquid like water , render them proper for casting, for it is the
 for it is the thickness that prevents them from running. Soft tin is more even com than the brittle one, which is
 from running. Soft tin is more even com than the brittle one , which is whiter and seems to be burnished like
 seems to be burnished like a mirror. To alloy well tin & lead, one needs to melt one by itself, and
 be burnished like a mirror. To alloy well tin & lead , one needs to melt one by itself, and then
 pieces at a time, and throw it often on the marble or the square tile. And when you will see it
 time, and throw it often on the marble or the square tile . And when you will see it become quite even
 good. For sometimes it becomes spotted due to too much lead & sometimes due to too much tin. There is some
 to too much lead & sometimes due to too much tin . There is some tin which takes more lead than
 & sometimes due to too much tin. There is some tin which takes more lead than another. Common tin is the
 too much tin. There is some tin which takes more lead than another. Common tin is the one that is mixed
 There is some tin which takes more lead than another. Common tin is the one that is mixed with lead. ut to
 another. Common tin is the one that is mixed with lead . ut to us Casting of lead Those who cast
 the one that is mixed with lead. ut to us Casting of lead Those who cast those small works that are sold in
 front of churches, y melt one for one lb of tin a half of lead, & cast in stone, & if
 melt one for one lb of tin a half of lead , & cast in stone, & if they want their
 lb of tin a half of lead, & cast in stone , & if they want their work whiter, they put
 if they want their work whiter, they put p half tin and half lead, but the first mixture is the best,
 their work whiter, they put p half tin and half lead , but the first mixture is the best, & does
 it rather hot, for otherwise, it would not flow. Others smoke their molds with a resin candle to cast neatly. The
 it would not flow. Others smoke their molds with a resin candle to cast neatly. The antimony makes the substance brittle &
 their molds with a resin candle to cast neatly. The antimony makes the substance brittle & breakable. The looking-glass tin makes
 neatly. The antimony makes the substance brittle & breakable. The looking-glass tin makes the work whiter, but not more runny; as for
 makes the work whiter, but not more runny; as for tin , it works well to the with pure lead. Those
 runny; as for tin, it works well to the with pure lead . Those who make very neat lead casts, use puncheon.
 to the with pure lead. Those who make very neat lead casts, use puncheon. Pewterers cast in a copper mold. One
 very neat lead casts, use puncheon. Pewterers cast in a copper mold. One says that one makes lead take hold on
 cast in a copper mold. One says that one makes lead take hold on glass with resin. Some put into the
 mold. One says that one makes lead take hold on glass with resin. Some put into the lead a quarter of
 says that one makes lead take hold on glass with resin . Some put into the lead a quarter of tin.
 take hold on glass with resin. Some put into the lead a quarter of tin. Looking-glass tin renders the work stronger.
 with resin. Some put into the lead a quarter of tin . Looking-glass tin renders the work stronger. Poncet They cast
 resin. Some put into the lead a quarter of tin. Looking-glass tin renders the work stronger. Poncet They cast with solder that
 Looking-glass tin renders the work stronger. Poncet They cast with solder that pewterers glassworkers use. Lump of iron Calcined iron oyster
 They cast with solder that pewterers glassworkers use. Lump of iron Calcined iron oyster shell Sand for lead casting Rye straw
 cast with solder that pewterers glassworkers use. Lump of iron Calcined iron oyster shell Sand for lead casting Rye straw ashes well boiled then
 pewterers glassworkers use. Lump of iron Calcined iron oyster shell Sand for lead casting Rye straw ashes well boiled then dried & then well
 use. Lump of iron Calcined iron oyster shell Sand for lead casting Rye straw ashes well boiled then dried & then
 of iron Calcined iron oyster shell Sand for lead casting Rye straw ashes well boiled then dried & then well sieved. Bind it
 boiled then dried & then well sieved. Bind it with glair of egg . One can cast copper, latten, and others in it.
 sieved. Bind it with glair of egg. One can cast copper , latten, and others in it. Another Burnt & calcined
 Bind it with glair of egg. One can cast copper, latten , and others in it. Another Burnt & calcined pumice
 One can cast copper, latten, and others in it. Another Burnt & calcined pumice stone . Burnt & calcined cuttlefish bones, as much of one
 and others in it. Another Burnt & calcined pumice stone. Burnt & calcined cuttlefish bones , as much of one as of the other; &
 bones, as much of one as of the other; & ashes of walnut tree or vine , well boiled, dried & finely sieved, bound with glair
 or vine, well boiled, dried & finely sieved, bound with glair of egg . Pewterers They put into one quintal of fine tin
 glair of egg. Pewterers They put into one quintal of fine tin one lb of looking-glass tin, which renders the tin thicker.
 put into one quintal of fine tin one lb of looking-glass tin , which renders the tin thicker. There are two kinds
 fine tin one lb of looking-glass tin, which renders the tin thicker. There are two kinds of tin, one of them
 which renders the tin thicker. There are two kinds of tin , one of them nearly like lead, which runs better,
 are two kinds of tin, one of them nearly like lead , which runs better, the other brittle, which becomes thicker.
 brittle, which becomes thicker. They cast in solid & thick tin molds or, to do it more neatly, in copper molds
 thick tin molds or, to do it more neatly, in copper molds engraved with a burin, or in stone, or in
 neatly, in copper molds engraved with a burin, or in stone , or in earth. Since latten scraps, mixed in, only
 molds engraved with a burin, or in stone, or in earth . Since latten scraps, mixed in, only render the tin
 with a burin, or in stone, or in earth. Since latten scraps, mixed in, only render the tin more breakable &
 in earth. Since latten scraps, mixed in, only render the tin more breakable & harder & difficult to work with, they
 very hot molds & almost red & with very hot tin . They fumigate their tin molds with resin candles. Brittle
 almost red & with very hot tin. They fumigate their tin molds with resin candles. Brittle dou tin is found mixed
 with very hot tin. They fumigate their tin molds with resin candles . Brittle dou tin is found mixed into saulmons, easy
 hot tin. They fumigate their tin molds with resin candles. Brittle dou tin is found mixed into saulmons, easy to cut, but difficult
 The calandra lark does not want to be without grey river sand , & the grey is the best, a little coarse.
 itself in it & purges itself with it. Grain of lead Take a pierced playing card, pierced with a pin or
 put your card three or 4 fingers away from the water that you will have put in a dish or similar
 put in a dish or similar vessel. Then pour your lead , which should not be too hot, into the card
 tap on the stick that holds it. And thus your lead will granulate itself roundly. And pass it through a coarse
 they are. Keeping fruit for the entire year ℞ a glass ampul with an opening capable of receiving cherries and plums
 plums or whatever fruit that you want. Put in some hot water for the space of two hours. And when your water
 water for the space of two hours. And when your water is cooled, throw it out & turn the opening upside
 air & of wind. Then en prepare a stopper of new wax , wrapped in waxed canvas, and adjust it to the
 Then en prepare a stopper of new wax, wrapped in waxed canvas , and adjust it to the ampul quite precisely in
 when you will have delicately picked with your hand the fruit without it being corrupted & on a warm & dry
 bottle. Then stop the bottle well with the stopper & lute it & making the lute if it seems good with
 well with the stopper & lute it & making the lute if it seems good with some quicklime & oil, &
 & making the lute if it seems good with some quicklime & oil, & such that no water may enter in.
 the lute if it seems good with some quicklime & oil , & such that no water may enter in. Then
 good with some quicklime & oil, & such that no water may enter in. Then put your bottles in a vat
 in. Then put your bottles in a vat full of water , during the summer Et lhiver pourceque la cave s
 bottom of a deep well. For in the winter the water of the vat would be too cold if the cellar is not quite
 the cellar is not quite warm, for one needs the water to be like river water. Molding If you want to
 quite warm, for one needs the water to be like river water . Molding If you want to promptly mold something in
 something in half relief that comes to hand, fold some paper in five or six doubles, & place it on the
 & place it on the medal & make sure the paper is folded on the back of the medal so that
 at the other, well softened, and rub well on the paper , & with the point of the stick retrace the
 imprint is well done. Then, at your convenience, slightly rub oil with a paintbrush lemp on the paper imprint and cast
 convenience, slightly rub oil with a paintbrush lemp on the paper imprint and cast in tallow or wax or sulfur, &
 a paintbrush lemp on the paper imprint and cast in tallow or wax or sulfur, & the paper, without burning, will
 lemp on the paper imprint and cast in tallow or wax or sulfur, & the paper, without burning, will render your
 the paper imprint and cast in tallow or wax or sulfur , & the paper, without burning, will render your portrait
 and cast in tallow or wax or sulfur, & the paper , without burning, will render your portrait neat, which you
 neat, which you will afterward be able to mold in plaster or tripoli, and then in lead & other metal. Polished
 you will afterward be able to mold in plaster or tripoli , and then in lead & other metal. Polished carton
 able to mold in plaster or tripoli, and then in lead & other metal. Polished carton of little thickness & a
 in plaster or tripoli, and then in lead & other metal . Polished carton of little thickness & a little moistened
 or tripoli, and then in lead & other metal. Polished carton of little thickness & a little moistened is proper. Then
 moistened is proper. Then if you want, strengthen it with paper glued on the back. Small birds Ortolans sing at night
 with hemp seed. The passe solitaire is purged with a spider , which one needs to give to it once a
 no gaillardisse comes to it. The calandra is purged with dry mortar , composed of lime & sand to keep it from
 it. The calandra is purged with dry mortar, composed of lime & sand to keep it from gaillardise & fattening too
 calandra is purged with dry mortar, composed of lime & sand to keep it from gaillardise & fattening too much. Young
 too much. Young small birds are purged with the same dry mortar , by putting some pieces in their cages. The cuckoo
 their cage. For feeding young goldfinches, one needs to pestle almonds with pith a very little amount of bread pith and
 For feeding young goldfinches, one needs to pestle almonds with pith a very little amount of bread pith and lettuce seed
 to pestle almonds with pith a very little amount of bread pith and lettuce seed or hemp seed. If it is for
 with pith a very little amount of bread pith and lettuce seed or hemp seed. If it is for linnet, some rapeseed.
 very little amount of bread pith and lettuce seed or hemp seed . If it is for linnet, some rapeseed. Curried steel
 seed or hemp seed. If it is for linnet, some rapeseed . Curried steel and files The steel that farriers &
 hemp seed. If it is for linnet, some rapeseed. Curried steel and files The steel that farriers & iron workers commonly
 is for linnet, some rapeseed. Curried steel and files The steel that farriers & iron workers commonly use is not refined
 rapeseed. Curried steel and files The steel that farriers & iron workers commonly use is not refined like that from Germany
 which is reduced in hardness p in the bath of molten iron , but only in the iron bars which are transported
 in the bath of molten iron, but only in the iron bars which are transported in flat ingots from the forges of
 the workers choose it & use it like the other steel . And because that it comes from common iron, they
 like the other steel. And because that it comes from common iron , they call it strong iron. But it is not
 because that it comes from common iron, they call it strong iron . But it is not as excellent as purified steel
 it strong iron. But it is not as excellent as purified steel like that from Germany & Biscaye, which is sold in
 & Biscaye, which is sold in small beads. Some curry steel , giving it a heating, then temper it & water
 curry steel, giving it a heating, then temper it & water in a large quantity of water, then forge it. &
 then temper it & water in a large quantity of water , then forge it. & fine steel, which is brittle,
 in a large quantity of water, then forge it. & fine steel , which is brittle, breaks and crumbles, & iron allows
 & fine steel, which is brittle, breaks and crumbles, & iron allows itself to be stretched. Thus they separate the finest
 & iron allows itself to be stretched. Thus they separate the finest steel &, which with another heating they reduce to a mass.
 reduce to a mass. The Germans make their files from strong iron . One applies steel to tools dess not on both
 The Germans make their files from strong iron. One applies steel to tools dess not on both sides, but underneath the
 whets them. & in this part, they must be of very soft iron . Levantines refine our steel because their country does not
 they must be of very soft iron. Levantines refine our steel because their country does not provide them with any. And
 with any. And they reheat it in a pot with bitumen , &c. Counterproofing Make some soap water & with this,
 it in a pot with bitumen, &c. Counterproofing Make some soap water & with this, rub & moisten the intaglio piece that
 the intaglio piece that you want to counterproof, then lay white paper on it & rub very vigorously across the top with
 the top with a tooth or the bottom of a glass & you will transfer your printed piece. It is true
 true that it will be in reverse, but if you oil your paper with spike lavender &or turpentine oil, it will
 it will be in reverse, but if you oil your paper with spike lavender &or turpentine oil, it will represent from
 be in reverse, but if you oil your paper with spike lavender &or turpentine oil , it will represent from the left the right on
 lines with a paintbrush or a quill, then heat the paper & the oil will go away & leave your paper
 paintbrush or a quill, then heat the paper & the oil will go away & leave your paper white. And if
 paper & the oil will go away & leave your paper white. And if you want this not to be known,
 known, if by chance, you borrowed the piece, moisten the paper , and the polishing that the burnisher has made on
 shows what has been done, will not be known. The soap water will turn the piece yellow, but well-gummed water, which has
 known. The soap water will turn the piece yellow, but well-gummed water , which has the same effect, does not do this.
 this. If you want to, for the same effect, make gummed water , then mix some soap in it & do as
 for the same effect, make gummed water, then mix some soap in it & do as is said. Cutters of printing
 as is said. Cutters of printing plates To clean the copper plates, or to make worn ones print better, boil them
 boil them for four or five good hours in a good lye quite spent in the wash water. Then make your ink
 good hours in a good lye quite spent in the wash water . Then make your ink with some linseed oil &
 lye quite spent in the wash water. Then make your ink with some linseed oil & not with walnut oil &
 in the wash water. Then make your ink with some linseed oil & not with walnut oil & press with the rollers.
 make your ink with some linseed oil & not with walnut oil & press with the rollers. The copper plates are sooner
 not with walnut oil & press with the rollers. The copper plates are sooner made than wood blocks, but they are
 with the rollers. The copper plates are sooner made than wood blocks, but they are not so appropriate for printing promptly.
 but they are not so appropriate for printing promptly. The wood ones are laborious but also will sooner have printed twenty
 printed twenty sheets than the other two. To carve in wood , the secret is first to poach, that is to
 say to lay the counterproof or drawn piece onto the wood block & to make sure that the side with the
 the side with the traced line is stuck to the wood . Once dry, you then gently rub with a moist
 gently rub with a moist handkerchief the back of the paper which, by rubbing, will become so delicate that almost only
 in cutting the surface. You could do this with historiated glass & coat with noir d’escaille, to then scrape & layer
 You could do this with historiated glass & coat with noir d’escaille , to then scrape & layer your colors on the
 & layer your colors on the uncovered area. To make ink for copper plates These rollers are good for promptly printing
 your colors on the uncovered area. To make ink for copper plates These rollers are good for promptly printing with cut
 plates These rollers are good for promptly printing with cut cartons different kinds of pastes. One can place the plates among
 good for promptly printing with cut cartons different kinds of pastes . One can place the plates among the linen when
 One can place the plates among the linen when the lye is quite pure, or in a pot. which is different
 different from that of the printers, one needs to boil walnut oil or, even better, linseed oil for a long time. &
 printers, one needs to boil walnut oil or, even better, linseed oil for a long time. & having boiled for a long
 having boiled for a long time, you will put in garlic & bread crusts to rid it of grease & leave
 for a long time, you will put in garlic & bread crusts to rid it of grease & leave again to boil
 boil thoroughly, then finally you put in one part of lampblack that you have previously ground on marble with oil. And
 one part of lampblack that you have previously ground on marble with oil. And finally you will mix everything as long
 of lampblack that you have previously ground on marble with oil . And finally you will mix everything as long as
 plate prints well. Which And when you have spread the ink on it, wipe the plates well with the surface of
 the plates well with the surface of a piece of white paper . & do this until the paper looks clean and
 a piece of white paper. & do this until the paper looks clean and then print. If you were to wipe
 print. If you were to wipe the plates with a linen cloth, it would remove the ink. Linseed oil thickens while
 the plates with a linen cloth, it would remove the ink . Linseed oil thickens while boiling & becomes like a
 plates with a linen cloth, it would remove the ink. Linseed oil thickens while boiling & becomes like a varnish & is
 ink. Linseed oil thickens while boiling & becomes like a varnish & is in danger of catching fire. Therefore, when you
 a place where the flame cannot cause damage. Some burn tartar until it is black & grind it with non-boiled linseed
 burn tartar until it is black & grind it with non-boiled linseed oil , or walnut oil which others find to be better.
 is black & grind it with non-boiled linseed oil, or walnut oil which others find to be better. This black is beautiful,
 or walnut oil which others find to be better. This black is beautiful, but the one of lamp smoke is blacker.
 be better. This black is beautiful, but the one of lamp smoke is blacker. When you want to print fr, take with
 to print fr, take with your fingertip of the said black moderately thick , the whole plate having first been cleaned in lye
 moderately thick, the whole plate having first been cleaned in lye as said, then, rub it with the surface of a
 then, rub it with the surface of a piece of white paper until the paper remains white & do not touch it
 the surface of a piece of white paper until the paper remains white & do not touch it with the bare
 with the bare hand because but with a piece of paper applied on top. & having cleaned the plate perfectly, mi
 the plate perfectly, mi rub again with a piece of paper , fold the edges & sides. Next, take a small
 a small even table & on this a piece of felt , then a few sheets of paper & finally the
 this a piece of felt, then a few sheets of paper & finally the one you want to print on, which
 should be moistened between two wet napkins. And on this sheet put your plate then another piece of paper, & finally
 on this sheet put your plate then another piece of paper , & finally another felt. Then pass between the rollers.
 your plate then another piece of paper, & finally another felt . Then pass between the rollers. And you can print
 a dozen pieces consecutively by always charging the plate with ink & cleaning it as you have done. But if you
 But if you desist from printing, the rest of the ink will dry in the grooves of the plate. Thus you
 the plate. Thus you will have to boil it in lye or urine, as already said, to clean it. The rollers
 Thus you will have to boil it in lye or urine , as already said, to clean it. The rollers must
 colt of three or 4 years & feed it on rye barley & straw pig cut in the manner one feeds
 of three or 4 years & feed it on rye barley & straw pig cut in the manner one feeds horses
 or 4 years & feed it on rye barley & straw pig cut in the manner one feeds horses in Spain,
 manner one feeds horses in Spain, and water it with good fountain or river water . I do not know if it would be good
 if it would be good to water it occasionally with water of sulfurous baths , & to sometimes give it fenugreek or other hot
 with water of sulfurous baths, & to sometimes give it fenugreek or other hot foods, for the intention of the worker
 worker is to it to use the heat of its dung , & the climate here is cooler than that of
 warm & close place & so that none of its dung & urine should be lost, of which you will make
 close place & so that none of its dung & urine should be lost, of which you will make a heap
 at the appropriate heat to continue. Also take a large glass mattras, as thick as you can, & one finger thick
 be done, & of the capacity of one pitcher or earthen jug. Around the feast of St. John, put into it
 St. John, put into it a dozen & a half chicken eggs , that is to say, the yolk without the glair
 & a half chicken eggs, that is to say, the yolk without the glair & the germ (see). Others say lx
 chicken eggs, that is to say, the yolk without the glair & the germ (see). Others say lx yolks. And it
 is to say, the yolk without the glair & the germ (see). Others say lx yolks. And it will be with
 without the glair & the germ (see). Others say lx yolks . And it will be with this dozen & a
 And it will be with this dozen & a half egg yolks put in half an ounce (others say for lx eggs
 yolks put in half an ounce (others say for lx eggs half a lb) of female silkworm seeds. And after having
 ounce (others say for lx eggs half a lb) of female silkworm seeds . And after having luted the mattras well (I do
 half a lb) of female silkworm seeds. And after having luted the mattras well (I do not know if it is
 put it & bury it in the heat of the dung up to the neck, and leave it there until several
 remove the mattras & do not bury it in the dung any longer, but only keep it placed on the hot
 only keep it placed on the hot layer of the dung until all the worms will have eaten & consumed one
 care of it, and you will feed it with an egg yolk covered with a gold leaf, or with a liquid egg
 will feed it with an egg yolk covered with a gold leaf , or with a liquid egg yolk with the gold
 yolk covered with a gold leaf, or with a liquid egg yolk with the gold leaf incorporated; & take good care that
 gold leaf, or with a liquid egg yolk with the gold leaf incorporated; & take good care that it does not want
 it does not want for such food (some say one egg yolk per hour, others three, but the thing itself will demonstrate
 to put it to death by making a ring of charcoal fire around the bottle one empan distant from it, and
 bottle one empan distant from it, and then stopper & lute the bottle well in order that it does not exhale.
 you feed it with pincers, b wash your mouth with good vinegar & take some preservative & plug yourself up well. Once
 up well. Once it is dead, put it in a linen cloth or a canvas of silk & fold it &
 put it in a linen cloth or a canvas of silk & fold it & hang it from the ceiling, where
 because one ℥ of this thrown on iii lb of molten ♁ reduces it to finer ☉ than the other one. But
 thrown on iii lb of molten ♁ reduces it to finer ☉ than the other one . But it does not have as much weight. For
 weight. For this work you also need to choose the oldest ♁ that you can, which has often been melted & finely
 & purify it before by melting & throwing it into honey & vinegar. The term of the work is nine months
 it before by melting & throwing it into honey & vinegar . The term of the work is nine months from
 third. Colors If you want to keep them beautiful in gum and such that they do not lose any of their
 they do not lose any of their true color, put white wine , the whitest and clearest you can, in a bottle
 and clearest you can, in a bottle with a little tragacanth gum . And having stoppered the bottle, scramble & shake it
 it very strongly together, & let it rest until the tragacanth is dissolved. Also put in a little fine-grained white salt
 the tragacanth is dissolved. Also put in a little fine-grained white salt to brighten the whole. Some mix clear water with white
 little fine-grained white salt to brighten the whole. Some mix clear water with white wine, and with this mixture they temper the
 salt to brighten the whole. Some mix clear water with white wine , and with this mixture they temper the colors without
 without grinding. And these show very beautifully in illumination work. Soldering a vise It is good that the jaws of the
 the jaws join well to clamp a delicate object. To solder the nut, after you have forged the bolt, you will
 forged the bolt, you will make will forge a long iron strip quar of such thickness that it can fit into the
 it the bolt o around which is it is wrapped. Copper If, in the fire & melt, it touches the iron,
 Copper If, in the fire & melt, it touches the iron , this iron will be so brittle afterward that it
 in the fire & melt, it touches the iron, this iron will be so brittle afterward that it cannot be forged.
 so brittle afterward that it cannot be forged. Casting of lead One mixes it, according to some, half tin & half
 Casting of lead One mixes it, according to some, half tin & half lead, and to l'esch heat it, one mixes
 One mixes it, according to some, half tin & half lead , and to l'esch heat it, one mixes in a
 and to l'esch heat it, one mixes in a little sublimate . It casts well in small works in a cuttlefish
 little sublimate. It casts well in small works in a cuttlefish bone , provided it is good. Molding with paper Boil over
 in a cuttlefish bone, provided it is good. Molding with paper Boil over hot ashes some cotton in aquafortis mixed with
 provided it is good. Molding with paper Boil over hot ashes some cotton in aquafortis mixed with sal ammoniac, like aqua
 is good. Molding with paper Boil over hot ashes some cotton in aquafortis mixed with sal ammoniac, like aqua regia, and
 Molding with paper Boil over hot ashes some cotton in aquafortis mixed with sal ammoniac, like aqua regia, and the cotton
 Boil over hot ashes some cotton in aquafortis mixed with sal ammoniac , like aqua regia, and the cotton will become very
 ashes some cotton in aquafortis mixed with sal ammoniac, like aqua regia , and the cotton will become very fine, like powder.
 aquafortis mixed with sal ammoniac, like aqua regia, and the cotton will become very fine, like powder. Temper it next it
 become very fine, like powder. Temper it next it with gummed water & you will mold very delicately. Almond trees, apricots They
 in best shield grafted on an almond tree. Casting of lead and copper Lead & tin come out well in white
 shield grafted on an almond tree. Casting of lead and copper Lead & tin come out well in white chalk but
 grafted on an almond tree. Casting of lead and copper Lead & tin come out well in white chalk but the
 an almond tree. Casting of lead and copper Lead & tin come out well in white chalk but the softer it
 lead and copper Lead & tin come out well in white chalk but the softer it is the better. The one from
 in white chalk but the softer it is the better. The one from Champaigne fetches the price that is set in Lyon. Burnt &
 from Champaigne fetches the price that is set in Lyon. Burnt & calcined horse bones mold very neatly. I believe that the marrow from the
 calcined horse bones mold very neatly. I believe that the marrow from the horns of oxen or sheep, that is to say, the spongy bone from
 believe that the marrow from the horns of oxen or sheep , that is to say, the spongy bone from the
 horns of oxen or sheep, that is to say, the spongy bone from the inside, molds very neatly and is better than
 from the inside, molds very neatly and is better than bone . Note that any brittle metal comes out better than
 very neatly and is better than bone. Note that any brittle metal comes out better than the fatty . Also, lean sand receives & drinks it better than
 any brittle metal comes out better than the fatty. Also, lean sand receives & drinks it better than the dense one. Silkworms
 Also, lean sand receives & drinks it better than the dense one . Silkworms They are produced from seed, that is to
 there are not so subject to illnesses & make more silk . In Spain, from one ounce of silk seed, worms
 & make more silk. In Spain, from one ounce of silk seed, worms are produced from it which commonly yield ord
 produced from it which commonly yield ord xv lb of silk . But the ounce from one ounce of seed produced
 are two or three molted, one needs to give them white mulberry leaves , and then arrange them on the shelves. And three
 shelves. And three times per day, one needs to exchange fresh leaves . And if during the day there is some thunder
 4 chafing dishes & with glowing charcoal, & put in incense until all the room would be filled with smoke. And
 in incense until all the room would be filled with smoke . And when the weather is warm & serain, the
 smoke. And when the weather is warm & serain, the silk abounds more & is all the better for it. Some
 may be white, it yellows when one draws it with hot water despuys. The worms, from their birth until u the their
 & downy all around &, the hair of which is ferret-silk or floret; & from the cocoon, which is a white,
 all around &, the hair of which is ferret-silk or floret ; & from the cocoon, which is a white, solid,
 cocoon, which is a white, solid, continuous & firm skin, silk is made. The cocoon is so hard that one only
 leaves & make their cocoon there without climbing high. The silk of the cocoons where there are On dry preserves To
 For making a horse follow +One needs to give it sweet bread & it will know the one who will do him
 keeping them from biting, it is good to have little resin balls prepared like those of shoemakers & to throw to them
 they yap at you, & they will bite on the balls so much that their teeth will be stuck together &
 disguising a horse Cut its ears & tail, & with lit hay , singe the hair on its head & elsewhere. Boots
 singe the hair on its head & elsewhere. Boots of hay For lack of boots, you can make rope of hay
 hay For lack of boots, you can make rope of hay & wrap your legs in it, & the rain will
 & plug the touch-hole below, & take a piece of porkfat , the freshest that you can, as long as the
 ball that will pierce and will make healing difficult Mix fat & strong vinegar & throw your ball very hot into
 will pierce and will make healing difficult Mix fat & strong vinegar & throw your ball very hot into this mixture. Against
 or a dog to test & in the wound put sap & pestled herb which is called semperviva, that is the
 dog to test & in the wound put sap & pestled herb which is called semperviva , that is the small one which has leaves like
 one which has leaves like small grains, which some call vermicularis . And one holds for certain that it will not
 snails you can, with their shell, put them in a glass bottle with a sufficient quantity of very hard & thoroughly
 with a sufficient quantity of very hard & thoroughly boiled egg yolks with good vinegar. Stopper the whole well & put it
 quantity of very hard & thoroughly boiled egg yolks with good vinegar . Stopper the whole well & put it under horsedung
 good vinegar. Stopper the whole well & put it under horsedung for the space of fifteen days. The snails will first
 of fifteen days. The snails will first live on the egg yolks , then with the heat they will come out of
 or a plant that is on the bank. Another for waters Daot ni a top with quicklime, which will consume all
 the bank. Another for waters Daot ni a top with quicklime , which will consume all this powder afterward, &c. Damascus
 with quicklime, which will consume all this powder afterward, &c. Damascus steel Distil earthworms separately & horseradish leaf separately, & mix these
 will consume all this powder afterward, &c. Damascus steel Distil earthworms separately & horseradish leaf separately, & mix these two waters,
 this powder afterward, &c. Damascus steel Distil earthworms separately & horseradish leaf separately, & mix these two waters, as much of one
 earthworms separately & horseradish leaf separately, & mix these two waters , as much of one as of the other, &
 the course one takes on the open sea Soak a ferlin in oil, then attach it to the stern of the
 one takes on the open sea Soak a ferlin in oil , then attach it to the stern of the ship
 stern of the ship such that it dips in the water , & it will make a trail that will show
 a trail that will show for ten leagues because the water is parted wherever the oil has passed. For casting Chalk
 for ten leagues because the water is parted wherever the oil has passed. For casting Chalk most recently taken from the
 water is parted wherever the oil has passed. For casting Chalk most recently taken from the quarry is good for lead.
 Chalk most recently taken from the quarry is good for lead . One ought neither to wet nor grind it, but
 pestling or scraping & passing through a sieve. Thus for pumice , which one ought not to grind with water, nor
 Thus for pumice, which one ought not to grind with water , nor corrupt its nature. Lead should be but little
 ought not to grind with water, nor corrupt its nature. Lead should be but little mixed with tin, only for giving
 corrupt its nature. Lead should be but little mixed with tin , only for giving it strength, and two parts of
 tin, only for giving it strength, and two parts of tin for lead for of one of tin or more. Excellent
 for giving it strength, and two parts of tin for lead for of one of tin or more. Excellent tempering bath
 two parts of tin for lead for of one of tin or more. Excellent tempering bath for cuirass bodies Take river
 tin or more. Excellent tempering bath for cuirass bodies Take river water , as clear & running as possible, & heat it
 a little more than tepid. Then take a bunch of weld , & take the grain of it & put it
 the grain of it & put it into the said water & boil it thoroughly, stirring it with a stick, then
 or other vessel, then throw into it two pecks of salt . Next, take a big cauldron of the said river
 of salt. Next, take a big cauldron of the said river water & heat it to a litte more than tepid. &
 than tepid. & take three or four double handfuls of fatty red earth , soak it & throw it into the cauldron with
 it & throw it into the cauldron with the said water . Take as much pigeon dung as the said earth,
 into the cauldron with the said water. Take as much pigeon dung as the said earth, & as much horse dung, &
 said water. Take as much pigeon dung as the said earth , & as much horse dung, & as much iron
 much pigeon dung as the said earth, & as much horse dung , & as much iron filings, & mix the whole
 said earth, & as much horse dung, & as much iron filings , & mix the whole separately, & throw it into
 the older this temper is, the better it will be. Varnish for distemper You can make marble with distemper of lake
 this temper is, the better it will be. Varnish for distemper You can make marble with distemper of lake or rose
 better it will be. Varnish for distemper You can make marble with distemper of lake or rose of Ghent & chalk.
 will be. Varnish for distemper You can make marble with distemper of lake or rose of Ghent & chalk. Once dry,
 Varnish for distemper You can make marble with distemper of lake or rose of Ghent & chalk. Once dry, glaze with
 distemper You can make marble with distemper of lake or rose of Ghent & chalk. Once dry, glaze with lake tempered in wine,
 marble with distemper of lake or rose of Ghent & chalk . Once dry, glaze with lake tempered in wine, for
 or rose of Ghent & chalk. Once dry, glaze with lake tempered in wine, for the glue makes it die &
 Ghent & chalk. Once dry, glaze with lake tempered in wine , for the glue makes it die & blacken. And
 Once dry, glaze with lake tempered in wine, for the glue makes it die & blacken. And all will appear red,
 die & blacken. And all will appear red, but the varnish you will put here, which will penetrate, will make appear
 dark & light that which ought to be thus. The varnish is made thus, mix with clear Venice turpentine some spike
 to be thus. The varnish is made thus, mix with clear Venice turpentine some spike lavender oil & until all is clear &
 varnish is made thus, mix with clear Venice turpentine some spike lavender oil & until all is clear & liquid enough, & it
 done without fire. This one es is for things in distemper , and the turpentine varnish that you know, for panels.
 This one es is for things in distemper, and the turpentine varnish that you know, for panels. Pure spike lavender oil varnish
 distemper, and the turpentine varnish that you know, for panels. Pure spike lavender oil varnish is not good for panels, for spike lavender oil is
 spike lavender oil varnish is not good for panels, for spike lavender oil is too penetrating & makes colors sparkle, unless it was
 colors sparkle, unless it was made long ago. Painter The lake & florey rosette of Ghent & others lose their color
 unless it was made long ago. Painter The lake & florey rosette of Ghent & others lose their color & die
 it was made long ago. Painter The lake & florey rosette of Ghent & others lose their color & die in the air.
 others lose their color & die in the air. All marble on which a knife can prick is worth nothing for
 knife can prick is worth nothing for grinding fine colors. Chalk has no body in oil. Ceruse is appropriate. But lead
 nothing for grinding fine colors. Chalk has no body in oil . Ceruse is appropriate. But lead white more excellent. Ceruse
 for grinding fine colors. Chalk has no body in oil. Ceruse is appropriate. But lead white more excellent. Ceruse is the
 Chalk has no body in oil. Ceruse is appropriate. But lead white more excellent. Ceruse is the whitest, when ground first in
 in oil. Ceruse is appropriate. But lead white more excellent. Ceruse is the whitest, when ground first in water, the lead
 more excellent. Ceruse is the whitest, when ground first in water , the lead white grayish. But the white it takes
 Ceruse is the whitest, when ground first in water, the lead white grayish. But the white it takes on its perfect whiteness
 But the white it takes on its perfect whiteness in oil . When you grind your colors, first clean your workshop
 never be beautiful if they are not very be clean. Florey must not be mixed with azur d’esmail or another, for
 not very be clean. Florey must not be mixed with azur d’esmail or another, for it makes it green. For palettes to
 another, for it makes it green. For palettes to paint, ivory is excellent, knots of the fir tree, the pear tree,
 makes it green. For palettes to paint, ivory is excellent, knots of the fir tree , the pear tree, & if it is a walnut
 paint, ivory is excellent, knots of the fir tree, the pear tree , & if it is a walnut tree, make sure
 fir tree, the pear tree, & if it is a walnut tree , make sure the grain of the wood runs lengthwise.
 is a walnut tree, make sure the grain of the wood runs lengthwise. L One always needs to apply imprimatura don
 runs lengthwise. L One always needs to apply imprimatura don wood to paint there in oil in order to fill the
 needs to apply imprimatura don wood to paint there in oil in order to fill the holes & unevenness, and make
 fill the holes & unevenness, and make imprimatura with some stil de grain yellow & ceruse tempered in oil, then soften with a feather,
 and make imprimatura with some stil de grain yellow & ceruse tempered in oil, then soften with a feather, which flattens
 with some stil de grain yellow & ceruse tempered in oil , then soften with a feather, which flattens better than
 imprimatura is dry, scrape strongly with a knife. To use azur d’esmail in oil, one needs to choose the most delicate. And
 scrape strongly with a knife. To use azur d’esmail in oil , one needs to choose the most delicate. And to
 the bottom, choose the one that is above in the water or, by inclination, pour out the cloudy water, then gather
 in the water or, by inclination, pour out the cloudy water , then gather the azure. The one who makes a
 by inclination, pour out the cloudy water, then gather the azure . The one who makes a profession of working in
 azure. The one who makes a profession of working in oil will hardly work well in distemper if he has not
 profession of working in oil will hardly work well in distemper if he has not been trained well from adolescence. For
 of working is different, because when washing the paintbrush for distemper , one always leaves it moist. And on the contrary,
 And on the contrary, when one cleans the paintbrush in oil to soften, one wipes the paintbrush well. Otherwise, the work
 little blacker to better make project & come out. In distemper do not mix your different colors together But for this
 you have time to soften, moisten the back of the canvas . Lake takes long to dry in oil and for
 have time to soften, moisten the back of the canvas. Lake takes long to dry in oil and for that reason
 back of the canvas. Lake takes long to dry in oil and for that reason one must grind some glass with
 in oil and for that reason one must grind some glass with it. But one needs to choose cristallin because it
 grind some glass with it. But one needs to choose cristallin because it is cleaner. And because it would be too
 on the fire, then when entirely red throw it into cold water , & it will crumble & pulverize easily for grinding
 it afterward. Being well ground it with a lot of water , it resembles ground lead white, but for all this
 ground it with a lot of water, it resembles ground lead white , but for all this it has no body. I
 no body. I think it would be good for casting. Lead white is made with plate lead, beaten thin & put under
 would be good for casting. Lead white is made with plate lead , beaten thin & put under the dung heap. White
 made with plate lead, beaten thin & put under the dung heap. White varnish of turpentine or of spike lavender oil
 plate lead, beaten thin & put under the dung heap. White varnish of turpentine or of spike lavender oil and turpentine is colored with pulverized terra emerita, making it boil together.
 thin & put under the dung heap. White varnish of turpentine or of spike lavender oil and turpentine is colored with
 under the dung heap. White varnish of turpentine or of spike lavender oil and turpentine is colored with pulverized terra emerita, making it
 White varnish of turpentine or of spike lavender oil and turpentine is colored with pulverized terra emerita, making it boil together.
 or of spike lavender oil and turpentine is colored with pulverized terra emerita , making it boil together. It gives a gold color
 making it boil together. It gives a gold color on silver and more beautiful if it is burnished. It is dry
 burnished. It is dry in a quarter of an hour. Aloe would make brighter color still, but it takes long to
 of an hour, in winter as well as summer. Good lake moistened with saliva is promptly rendered dark. That from Florence
 in winter as well as summer. Good lake moistened with saliva is promptly rendered dark. That from Florence is too gummed.
 Florence is too gummed. If you make a layer of printers’ ink on velvet and there apply gold leaf and then stretch
 gummed. If you make a layer of printers’ ink on velvet and there apply gold leaf and then stretch the velvet,
 a layer of printers’ ink on velvet and there apply gold leaf and then stretch the velvet, it will appear grainy as
 velvet and there apply gold leaf and then stretch the velvet , it will appear grainy as if there were gold
 the velvet, it will appear grainy as if there were gold powder disseminated on it. Vermilion ground by itself is wan and
 grainy as if there were gold powder disseminated on it. Vermilion ground by itself is wan and pale, but ground after
 ground by itself is wan and pale, but ground after lake , it is more beautiful. For ridding marbles of grease,
 but ground after lake, it is more beautiful. For ridding marbles of grease, one grinds common ashes on it, which is
 is more beautiful. For ridding marbles of grease, one grinds common ashes on it, which is good afterward to make the first
 the first imprimatura of a panel that is prepared in oil in order to seal the cracks & chinks of the
 in order to seal the cracks & chinks of the wood . It has more body than chalk & it has
 & chinks of the wood. It has more body than chalk & it has chalk a certain fattiness. One mixes it
 wood. It has more body than chalk & it has chalk a certain fattiness. One mixes it with the said chalk
 chalk a certain fattiness. One mixes it with the said chalk or ra with the colors collected from the vessel where
 color. On Once this first imprimatura is made on the wood , one scrapes with a knife to even it. Next,
 even it. Next, one makes there a second imprimatura of ceruse or of the meanest colors mixed together. In a painting
 of the meanest colors mixed together. In a painting in oil on canvas, one applies only one imprimatura, and the same
 meanest colors mixed together. In a painting in oil on canvas , one applies only one imprimatura, and the same ashes
 on canvas, one applies only one imprimatura, and the same ashes can be used there. Also, after one has ground a
 Also, after one has ground a color, one grinds some pith of coarse bread on it to rid the marble of grease. Sheath maker
 some pith of coarse bread on it to rid the marble of grease. Sheath maker Sheath makers use small, very delicate
 rid the marble of grease. Sheath maker Sheath makers use small, very delicate skins of lambs and young goats , almost like parchment and keep them constantly re-moistened in
 very delicate skins of lambs and young goats, almost like parchment and keep them constantly re-moistened in humid places. When they
 the hollows of their figure, then put over the top fine fatty earth with which cloths are rid of grease, having pressed &
 it moderately humid and soft. Then they put on the earth a small even board and put the whole in a
 in a press and let it dry there. After the earth , only the leather remains neatly imprinted of the size
 and let it dry there. After the earth, only the leather remains neatly imprinted of the size of a pea. And
 the size of a pea. And then you give the leather two or three layers of copperas black and iron scale,
 then you give the leather two or three layers of copperas black and iron scale, one after the other, as even as
 the leather two or three layers of copperas black and iron scale , one after the other, as even as the tanners
 the other, as even as the tanners do. And this dye , being astringent, makes the leather shrink & strengthens it
 the tanners do. And this dye, being astringent, makes the leather shrink & strengthens it and makes it imprint better. Once
 strengthens it and makes it imprint better. Once dry, one glues canvas on the back with strong glue. In this manner
 it and makes it imprint better. Once dry, one glues canvas on the back with strong glue. In this manner one
 better. Once dry, one glues canvas on the back with strong glue . In this manner one can promptly imitate big statues
 is done differently and can be retraced with a hot iron . Painter Good crayons are not made with good glue
 and can be retraced with a hot iron. Painter Good crayons are not made with good glue but with women’s milk.
 hot iron. Painter Good crayons are not made with good glue but with women’s milk. Images made of carton, once dry,
 Good crayons are not made with good glue but with women’s milk . Images made of carton, once dry, have to be
 with good glue but with women’s milk. Images made of carton , once dry, have to be soaked in thoroughly thinned
 made of carton, once dry, have to be soaked in thoroughly thinned and clear melted resin . This strengthens it, otherwise they turn limp in wet
 are made with the hollow & the male face of copper . The Flemish do not use any whites for flesh
 Flemish do not use any whites for flesh colors in oil other than lead white because the ceruse turns yellow. 4
 use any whites for flesh colors in oil other than lead white because the ceruse turns yellow. 4 or 5 year-old walnut
 flesh colors in oil other than lead white because the ceruse turns yellow. 4 or 5 year-old walnut oil which is
 white because the ceruse turns yellow. 4 or 5 year-old walnut oil which is clear is the best color, it keeps off
 recently been drawn with the press in the manner of almond oil is white, especially if the walnuts’ skin is removed. One
 the manner of almond oil is white, especially if the walnuts’ skin is removed. One needs to make at least three layers
 least three layers of flesh color to accomplish faces in oil . And at the beginning, one puts the black and
 and umber where it is appropriate. Next, the heightening with lead white must not be put on the black. Flesh colors, and
 be put on the black. Flesh colors, and where the ceruse enters will yellow in five or six months, but lead
 ceruse enters will yellow in five or six months, but lead white does not change. Florence lake is better than that from
 five or six months, but lead white does not change. Florence lake is better than that from Flanders for in Florence the
 To make a beautiful flesh color, the reddest & liveliest lake is the best, for the kind that contains purple &
 liveliest lake is the best, for the kind that contains purple & violet, by admixture of too much alum, makes flesh
 that contains purple & violet, by admixture of too much alum , makes flesh color like that of one who is
 That is why ladies, wanting to color their cheeks, grind Florence lake very finely, then fill a little cotton with it, which
 cheeks, grind Florence lake very finely, then fill a little cotton with it, which they next wrap in a little fabric
 cotton with it, which they next wrap in a little fabric of Cambray which is clear. And thus they pounce the lake on
 of Cambray which is clear. And thus they pounce the lake on their cheeks & then, with another clean cotton, they
 the lake on their cheeks & then, with another clean cotton , they soften it. Cristallin having been ground with water
 cheeks & then, with another clean cotton, they soften it. Cristallin having been ground with water appears to be have body,
 clean cotton, they soften it. Cristallin having been ground with water appears to be have body, but with oil it does
 ground with water appears to be have body, but with oil it does not have any. It is ground with lake
 oil it does not have any. It is ground with lake & with asphaltum, which would not dry for a very
 not have any. It is ground with lake & with asphaltum , which would not dry for a very long time
 would not dry for a very long time without this. Spike lavender oil is commonly put with lead white, d not entirely pure
 time without this. Spike lavender oil is commonly put with lead white , d not entirely pure but mixed with a little
 white, d not entirely pure but mixed with a little walnut oil . The said spike lavender oil would not be good
 pure but mixed with a little walnut oil. The said spike lavender oil would not be good for lake & colors that do
 The said spike lavender oil would not be good for lake & colors that do not have body for it would
 have body & are somewhat fatty, it is quite appropriate. Verdigris and orpiment must first be ground with urine before thinning
 & are somewhat fatty, it is quite appropriate. Verdigris and orpiment must first be ground with urine before thinning them with
 quite appropriate. Verdigris and orpiment must first be ground with urine before thinning them with oil. Thus they are beautiful &
 must first be ground with urine before thinning them with oil . Thus they are beautiful & do not die. Blacks
 oil. Thus they are beautiful & do not die. Blacks Black of charcoal from the mines , of ordinary charcoal, of burnt ivory, of peach pits,
 not die. Blacks Black of charcoal from the mines, of ordinary charcoal , of burnt ivory, of peach pits, of lamp smoke,
 Black of charcoal from the mines, of ordinary charcoal, of burnt ivory , of peach pits, of lamp smoke, of burnt bones
 from the mines, of ordinary charcoal, of burnt ivory, of peach pits , of lamp smoke, of burnt bones of the feet
 of ordinary charcoal, of burnt ivory, of peach pits, of lamp smoke , of burnt bones of the feet of oxen. Shadows
 of burnt ivory, of peach pits, of lamp smoke, of burnt bones of the feet of oxen . Shadows When you are making a painting with several
 have to be different, so do the shadows. In fresco Azure is not good here, but wan, & one needs to
 work with long paintbrushes. Fresco is not used cont on wood . Azure Turpentine oil renders it very beautiful. Test palma
 with long paintbrushes. Fresco is not used cont on wood. Azure Turpentine oil renders it very beautiful. Test palma christi seed
 long paintbrushes. Fresco is not used cont on wood. Azure Turpentine oil renders it very beautiful. Test palma christi seed oil. Walnut
 on wood. Azure Turpentine oil renders it very beautiful. Test palma christi seed oil . Walnut oil in Flanders costs at least a hundred
 oil renders it very beautiful. Test palma christi seed oil. Walnut oil in Flanders costs at least a hundred sous a pint.
 Flanders costs at least a hundred sous a pint. The azure requires a little fatty oil because it has no body.
 a hundred sous a pint. The azure requires a little fatty oil because it has no body. Azur d’esmail hates more than
 requires a little fatty oil because it has no body. Azur d’esmail hates more than any other to be ground, especially with
 hates more than any other to be ground, especially with water , for it dies & loses all its color. However,
 cannot be worked if it is coarse, grind not with water but with oil & grind it thickly, and in this
 if it is coarse, grind not with water but with oil & grind it thickly, and in this way it will
 inside, & you want to clean them, soak them in spike lavender oil and they immediately will turn soft again as before, then
 as before, then you will finish to clean them in walnut oil . Walnut oil is not as not as appropriate to
 then you will finish to clean them in walnut oil. Walnut oil is not as not as appropriate to soften them as
 as not as appropriate to soften them as that of spike lavender , which is clear like water & penetrates & does
 them as that of spike lavender, which is clear like water & penetrates & does not have body like walnut oil.
 like water & penetrates & does not have body like walnut oil . The handle of paintbrushes is made by those who
 paintbrushes is made by those who work with care from porcupine quills , by others from wood of arrows from Turkey with
 who work with care from porcupine quills, by others from wood of arrows from Turkey with whom with which they also make small rods to
 who work with care from porcupine quills, by others from wood of arrows from Turkey with whom with which they also
 which have a firm point areon needed. And because a squirrel’s tail hair is soft, the most careful take the bristles of the
 squirrel’s tail hair is soft, the most careful take the bristles of the oldest rats , especially of dormice if they can find them, &
 of the paintbrush. These make a straight line like a quill & all the other hairs of the paintbrush stick to
 a straight line like a quill & all the other hairs of the paintbrush stick to them as to the point.
 the paintbrush stick to them as to the point. The bristles of beech martens & weasels & small animals that make musk are even better, for a single hair in a paintbrush
 of beech martens & weasels & small animals that make musk are even better, for a single hair in a paintbrush
 animals that make musk are even better, for a single hair in a paintbrush suffices. Lake & lead white & ceruse
 even better, for a single hair in a paintbrush suffices. Lake & lead white & ceruse are easy to work in
 for a single hair in a paintbrush suffices. Lake & lead white & ceruse are easy to work in oil, but every
 hair in a paintbrush suffices. Lake & lead white & ceruse are easy to work in oil, but every kind of
 & lead white & ceruse are easy to work in oil , but every kind of azure is difficult. And to
 are easy to work in oil, but every kind of azure is difficult. And to make beautiful azure, one needs to
 every kind of azure is difficult. And to make beautiful azure , one needs to layer it not with large strokes
 paintbrush but with small strokes of the point. Not only ash & azur d’Acre but mainly azur d’esmail which one needs
 with small strokes of the point. Not only ash & azur d’Acre but mainly azur d’esmail which one needs to choose to
 the point. Not only ash & azur d’Acre but mainly azur d’esmail which one needs to choose to be very delicate, for
 work, and even then you need to allay it with turpentine to give it body, and mix it with a little
 to give it body, and mix it with a little lead white . Any azure wants neither to be ground nor washed
 body, and mix it with a little lead white. Any azure wants neither to be ground nor washed for it loses
 palette, you will thin it little by little either with walnut oil or turpentine oil, dipping a knife point in the oil,
 thin it little by little either with walnut oil or turpentine oil , dipping a knife point in the oil, then tempering
 oil or turpentine oil, dipping a knife point in the oil , then tempering it little by little on the said
 by hatching them from the darkest to the clearest. The varnish is more beautiful on the panel when the color has
 beautiful on the panel when the color has imbibed well. Azure Azure is more beautiful when imbibed on the panel without
 on the panel when the color has imbibed well. Azure Azure is more beautiful when imbibed on the panel without with
 is more beautiful when imbibed on the panel without with walnut oil with which it has been first thinned, without putting in
 with which it has been first thinned, without putting in spike lavender oil . And if you want to know if it is
 thus appearing to be well-imbibed. If not, it will shine. Azur d’esmail imbibed in oil tempered in oil, leaves it & returns
 well-imbibed. If not, it will shine. Azur d’esmail imbibed in oil tempered in oil, leaves it & returns to its primary
 it will shine. Azur d’esmail imbibed in oil tempered in oil , leaves it & returns to its primary nature if
 returns to its primary nature if you mix it in water . Colors for working in miniature want to be thoroughly
 want your work to be well-softened. Black Painting of armor Charcoal black mixed with a little lead white is very appropriate to
 Black Painting of armor Charcoal black mixed with a little lead white is very appropriate to make armor, mixing in a little
 very appropriate to make armor, mixing in a little of azure if you wish. Charcoal black by itself is as if
 armor, mixing in a little of azure if you wish. Charcoal black by itself is as if bluish. Painting of crêpe First
 Charcoal black by itself is as if bluish. Painting of crêpe First one needs to make the background greyish with charcoal
 crêpe First one needs to make the background greyish with charcoal black mixed with lead white & a little azure. Then, resu
 to make the background greyish with charcoal black mixed with lead white & a little azure. Then, resu after it is dry,
 with charcoal black mixed with lead white & a little azure . Then, resu after it is dry, heighten with strokes
 after it is dry, heighten with strokes & lines in lead white . Folds in clothing In this, one needs to take
 only that which the natural can do is imitated. A thick cloth hardly makes any folds, taffetas & silk cloth make more,
 do is imitated. A thick cloth hardly makes any folds, taffetas & silk cloth make more, & crêpe more still. Make
 imitated. A thick cloth hardly makes any folds, taffetas & silk cloth make more, & crêpe more still. Make Heed which ones
 makes any folds, taffetas & silk cloth make more, & crêpe more still. Make Heed which ones should go lengthwise &
 Heed which ones should go lengthwise & others across. Desiccative Lead white & massicot are the most desiccative, nevertheless they need a
 should go lengthwise & others across. Desiccative Lead white & massicot are the most desiccative, nevertheless they need a good two
 good two days. If you want to prove whether an oil is desiccative, temper lead white with it, & if it
 you want to prove whether an oil is desiccative, temper lead white with it, & if it produces a crust in a
 day soon it means that it will dessicate. Double layers Azures , flesh colors, & reds are layered twice. The others
 in a panel If a painted panel breaks you can glue it well on the reverse, but to fill in the
 it & repair it, it ought not to be with glue , which rots in damp weather & would swell when
 in damp weather & would swell when touched with the oil of the painting. But take white wax, which is harder
 when touched with the oil of the painting. But take white wax , which is harder than the other. The oil mixed
 take white wax, which is harder than the other. The oil mixed in among the wax prevents it from melting in
 harder than the other. The oil mixed in among the wax prevents it from melting in the sun. The wax ought
 the wax prevents it from melting in the sun. The wax ought not to be hard, but soft as if recently
 scrape; and to prevent it from breaking, mix in little oil & melt them together & fill the cracks & make
 & make them even and paint on them. And the oil mixed with wax will q better receive color, which is
 even and paint on them. And the oil mixed with wax will q better receive color, which is also tempered with
 will q better receive color, which is also tempered with oil . First whitening of a panel One layers two or
 of a panel One layers two or three times with chalk tempered with distemper glue on the panel, not with a
 One layers two or three times with chalk tempered with distemper glue on the panel, not with a paintbrush but with a
 ground well with a knife, then give a coat of glue on top, upon which you will next be able to
 itself, they will not die & you will work neatly. Oil Walnut oil extracted like peeled almonds is very white. The
 they will not die & you will work neatly. Oil Walnut oil extracted like peeled almonds is very white. The one of
 & you will work neatly. Oil Walnut oil extracted like peeled almonds is very white. The one of palma christi. And when
 extracted like peeled almonds is very white. The one of palma christi . And when the oil has a little body, the
 very white. The one of palma christi. And when the oil has a little body, the colors soften in it. For
 little body, the colors soften in it. For if the oil is too clear, the colors run & do not have
 not have bond, even those that hardly have any body. Fatty oil that is not easily imbibed is appropriate for varnish. The
 Fatty oil that is not easily imbibed is appropriate for varnish . The oil is desiccative enough when it dries out
 that is not easily imbibed is appropriate for varnish. The oil is desiccative enough when it dries out as quickly as
 is desiccative enough when it dries out as quickly as common varnish . Oils do not dry as quickly in cold countries
 enough when it dries out as quickly as common varnish. Oils do not dry as quickly in cold countries as in
 dry as quickly in cold countries as in hot countries. Oil exposed to the sun is clarified well. But it fattens,
 is clarified well. But it fattens, if you put in ceruse or lead filings or lead white or calcined pulverized pglass.
 well. But it fattens, if you put in ceruse or lead filings or lead white or calcined pulverized pglass. To avoid this,
 fattens, if you put in ceruse or lead filings or lead white or calcined pulverized pglass. To avoid this, put the vial
 put in ceruse or lead filings or lead white or calcined pulverized pglass . To avoid this, put the vial in clear water.
 calcined pulverized pglass. To avoid this, put the vial in clear water . Colors in oil, once dry, sometimes do not easily
 avoid this, put the vial in clear water. Colors in oil , once dry, sometimes do not easily receive the second
 this, breathe on them & the color will take there. Varnish dry in an hour Take white turpentine oil & turpentine
 color will take there. Varnish dry in an hour Take white turpentine oil & turpentine & mastic, pulverized & passed delicately through a
 Varnish dry in an hour Take white turpentine oil & turpentine & mastic, pulverized & passed delicately through a sieve, &
 in an hour Take white turpentine oil & turpentine & mastic, pulverized & passed delicately through a sieve , & boil together, stirring continuously with a stick until
 is dry. And put in two liards' worth of good eau-de-vie . And if you extract the tear of mastic, it
 of good eau-de-vie. And if you extract the tear of mastic , it will be whiter & clearer. There is no
 whiter & clearer. There is no need to put in turpentine , but only its white turpentine oil & mastic pulverized
 is no need to put in turpentine, but only its white turpentine oil & mastic pulverized at your discretion, until it has enough
 put in turpentine, but only its white turpentine oil & mastic pulverized at your discretion, until it has enough body. + +
 dry within an hour and does not stick like the turpentine one. Cleaning panels Some clean them with soapy water, others
 like the turpentine one. Cleaning panels Some clean them with soapy water , others with urine, others with white wine, for dust
 Cleaning panels Some clean them with soapy water, others with urine , others with white wine, for dust spoils the colors.
 clean them with soapy water, others with urine, others with white wine , for dust spoils the colors. Spike lavender oil One
 urine, others with white wine, for dust spoils the colors. Spike lavender oil One ought not to put any into colors for it
 And for this reason, painters use it to clean their oil paintbrush when they have become hard, for it renders them
 another, in the evening secretly pour a few drops of spike lavender on the oil on the top edge of the panel such that, running
 it makes a stain that penetrates as far as the wood & makes the colors come off such that, to make
 forced to do everything again and thus lose their work. Wood color One gives a layer of bistre, then a coat
 lose their work. Wood color One gives a layer of bistre , then a coat of varnish. Work of the Flemish
 One gives a layer of bistre, then a coat of varnish . Work of the Flemish They do all their works
 Work of the Flemish They do all their works in oil with the tip of the paintbrushes, in f the fashion
 dust, and often clean from their paintbrush the bits of hair which they sometimes leave there, for if these should remain
 you will lightly touch the principal lights with a little lead white . But avoid putting too much of it for this
 make it look like a face of death. The beautiful Florence lake makes a beautiful re vivid flesh color approaching the tint
 a beautiful re vivid flesh color approaching the tint of rose alexandrine & incarnadine. Certain colors do not want to be ground,
 vivid flesh color approaching the tint of rose alexandrine & incarnadine . Certain colors do not want to be ground, like
 incarnadine. Certain colors do not want to be ground, like minium and massicot. The ashes do not want to be ground
 colors do not want to be ground, like minium and massicot . The ashes do not want to be ground at
 not want to be ground, like minium and massicot. The ashes do not want to be ground at all. Rounding If
 point of the dry & flattened paintbrush & with patience. Lead white Without this, you cannot work on a small scale, for
 soften with great care. But you cannot do it with ceruse because it does not have enough body. Lights Your paintbrush
 & the work, as a harsh light a harsh work. Water to give light for the painter Distill some vine water
 work. Water to give light for the painter Distill some vine water & put it into a big bottle. And behind this,
 Germans Germans who work in miniature make frames not of glass , but of canvas anointed with clear turpentine varnish, namely
 work in miniature make frames not of glass, but of canvas anointed with clear turpentine varnish, namely half turpentine oil &
 make frames not of glass, but of canvas anointed with clear turpentine varnish , namely half turpentine oil & almost half turpentine, because
 but of canvas anointed with clear turpentine varnish, namely half turpentine oil & almost half turpentine, because this light, which is not
 clear turpentine varnish, namely half turpentine oil & almost half turpentine , because this light, which is not as bright as
 because this light, which is not as bright as from glass , makes features appear larger to them. And when they
 similar things, they use paintbrushes composed of two or three rat whiskers . Azur d’esmail in oil One needs to choose the
 they use paintbrushes composed of two or three rat whiskers. Azur d’esmail in oil One needs to choose the most beautiful delicate
 composed of two or three rat whiskers. Azur d’esmail in oil One needs to choose the most beautiful delicate that will
 if it is coarse one cannot work with it in oil . And if you do not find any that is
 is subtle enough, you can grind it well, not with water but with oil, & grind it thickly. Next lay it
 you can grind it well, not with water but with oil , & grind it thickly. Next lay it on your
 lay it on your palette & mix in a little turpentine , but hardly any, to give it bond, and make
 bond, and make it so that it is thick like butter or mortar, & then, with a fairly large paintbrush, work
 make it so that it is thick like butter or mortar , & then, with a fairly large paintbrush, work it
 highlights will be made with d the same thinned with ceruse , which, giving it bond, makes it easier to work.
 subtle & thin without being ground, and does not run. Azure wants to be layered neatly, which is why quan it
 an old panel, one layers it on old, already tarnished azure . In such matters, it is better to scrape off
 old layer & apply imprimatura again, then put down the azure . It is almost thus for other colors. Also, azure
 the azure. It is almost thus for other colors. Also, azure ground with oil always remains shiny, which is not a
 is almost thus for other colors. Also, azure ground with oil always remains shiny, which is not a good sign for
 always remains shiny, which is not a good sign for azure , for this makes it die. Grinding colors A slab
 for this makes it die. Grinding colors A slab of marble & p glass a glass thumb thick is more appropriate
 it die. Grinding colors A slab of marble & p glass a glass thumb thick is more appropriate than anything else
 Grinding colors A slab of marble & p glass a glass thumb thick is more appropriate than anything else for grinding
 appropriate than anything else for grinding colors neatly, especially for lake & for whites. Perspectives Perspectives in oil take a long
 neatly, especially for lake & for whites. Perspectives Perspectives in oil take a long time because of several lines that need
 ruler, and for this reason one usually does them in distemper . One takes the points at one’s discretion. The main
 One commonly makes two or three of them, sometimes five. Ocher It is put for faces, hair, skulls, and rocks. Distant
 roughly in gray or in purple, which is made of azure ash & lake. Once dry, one heightens & finishes with flesh
 or in purple, which is made of azure ash & lake . Once dry, one heightens & finishes with flesh color
 even, you will start drawing with the longest piece of charcoal you can find, for with a short one you would
 & would do it roughly. Let the tip of the charcoal be thin, & in order not to render it dull
 flat, thus you will constantly sharpen it. Also, hold your charcoal as far at the end as you can, & do
 line. For if you accustom yourself to drawing delicately with charcoal , you will do likewise with colors. And he who
 do likewise with colors. And he who is rough with charcoal is never exquisit with colors. And by a line of
 is never exquisit with colors. And by a line of charcoal , masters pass judgement on their apprentices. First make the
 with the paintbrush in rose color or another color in gum or distemper. Thus you will work more confidently with colors,
 paintbrush in rose color or another color in gum or distemper . Thus you will work more confidently with colors, and
 done, it becomes greasy. One needs to rub it with ash & water. Perspective To know the point, one needs to
 becomes greasy. One needs to rub it with ash & water . Perspective To know the point, one needs to lay
 cause errors. Perspective is very difficult. To paint perspective in oil , you ought not to use a ruler, for you
 follow the lines of your first drawing. Also, to make plumb lines, which go from the top to make vif to
 the bottom of the panel, you need to have a thread with some piece of lead attached to one end &
 you need to have a thread with some piece of lead attached to one end & a little hook to the
 a little hook to the other for hanging the said thread from the top of the panel. Panel To draw &
 Panel To draw & to layer the colors, especially in oil , it is necessary that you hold your panel as
 is slanted there is a danger that some dust & dirt might stick on it. Keep clean & without dust the
 said to be immortal, it is nonetheless the case that white wine removes its tint & turns claret-colored, on & the dry
 removes its tint & turns claret-colored, on & the dry flower ends up white afterward. Note that in this way the
 ends up white afterward. Note that in this way the wine , & I have p tested it. Eau-de-vie does as
 this way the wine, & I have p tested it. Eau-de-vie does as much. Drying of oil If the oil does
 have p tested it. Eau-de-vie does as much. Drying of oil If the oil does not dry out, put in massicot
 it. Eau-de-vie does as much. Drying of oil If the oil does not dry out, put in massicot & minium. There
 oil If the oil does not dry out, put in massicot & minium. There is no better oil than that of
 the oil does not dry out, put in massicot & minium . There is no better oil than that of walnut,
 out, put in massicot & minium. There is no better oil than that of walnut , for it dries out neither too soon nor too
 neither too soon nor too late. Casting The Germans use lead from Flanders because it is very soft. And to cast better they
 it is very soft. And to cast better they take lead ore & melt it, & separate what is melted from the
 & melt it, & separate what is melted from the filth & ore, & pour it into a separate vessel, then
 it, & separate what is melted from the filth & ore , & pour it into a separate vessel, then the
 the bottom they make their cast with it. For the lead must not have been put to work before, but rather
 before, but rather completely new. Some cast into molds of iron & copper. or new lead coming from the mine. They
 rather completely new. Some cast into molds of iron & copper . or new lead coming from the mine. They melt
 Some cast into molds of iron & copper. or new lead coming from the mine. They melt it twice in a
 a crucible. In the first one, they purge it of filth . In the second, they en make the cast. Shadows
 make their shadows on flesh color of men with ground jet , stil de grain yellow & ocher. Bistre It is
 their shadows on flesh color of men with ground jet, stil de grain yellow & ocher. Bistre It is only used in distemper, &
 of men with ground jet, stil de grain yellow & ocher . Bistre It is only used in distemper, & with
 men with ground jet, stil de grain yellow & ocher. Bistre It is only used in distemper, & with this wood
 grain yellow & ocher. Bistre It is only used in distemper , & with this wood color is made. Verdigris and
 Bistre It is only used in distemper, & with this wood color is made. Verdigris and another very beautiful bright green
 used in distemper, & with this wood color is made. Verdigris and another very beautiful bright green One ought not to
 beautiful bright green One ought not to grind it with water alone, for that makes it die. To render it beautiful
 for that makes it die. To render it beautiful in distemper , some grind it with vinegar, but that makes it
 To render it beautiful in distemper, some grind it with vinegar , but that makes it turn pale & become whitish.
 & become whitish. To render it beautiful, grind it with urine & leave to dry. Then, whenever you like, grind it
 leave to dry. Then, whenever you like, grind it with oil . And after you have collected it with the spatula,
 collected it with the spatula, before finishing to clean the marble , grind stil de grain yellow on it. And you
 with the spatula, before finishing to clean the marble, grind stil de grain yellow on it. And you will have a very beautiful green.
 blue & green velvets, you highlight touch the shading with peach pit black, which is very black. For lake, black of pit
 shading with peach pit black, which is very black. For lake , black of pit coal which makes a reddish black
 pit black, which is very black. For lake, black of pit coal which makes a reddish black on lake for velvets. The
 black of pit coal which makes a reddish black on lake for velvets. The common charcoal makes a whitish black. P
 which makes a reddish black on lake for velvets. The common charcoal makes a whitish black. P Armor Soft wood charcoal makes
 velvets. The common charcoal makes a whitish black. P Armor Soft wood charcoal makes a bluish color. It is good for making armor.
 makes a bluish color. It is good for making armor. Stil de grain yellow Is made with broom flower boiled well in water, putting
 for making armor. Stil de grain yellow Is made with broom flower boiled well in water, putting in enough alum, then ceruse.
 grain yellow Is made with broom flower boiled well in water , putting in enough alum, then ceruse. Rosette Some with
 with broom flower boiled well in water, putting in enough alum , then ceruse. Rosette Some with chalk, but the best
 flower boiled well in water, putting in enough alum, then ceruse . Rosette Some with chalk, but the best has its
 boiled well in water, putting in enough alum, then ceruse. Rosette Some with chalk, but the best has its body with
 water, putting in enough alum, then ceruse. Rosette Some with chalk , but the best has its body with ceruse &
 Some with chalk, but the best has its body with ceruse & brazilwood dye. Flanders blue In the month of May,
 chalk, but the best has its body with ceruse & brazilwood dye . Flanders blue In the month of May, one puts
 Flanders blue In the month of May, one puts the cow dung to putrefy under horse dung. Then one mixes with florey.
 of May, one puts the cow dung to putrefy under horse dung . Then one mixes with florey. Snow-covered landscapes Only three
 dung to putrefy under horse dung. Then one mixes with florey . Snow-covered landscapes Only three colors are used for it:
 white, black & bistre . Softening If you have worked & made your ground
 & made your ground with some desiccative color, such as minium & similar, finish softening while the work is fresh, for
 soften the colors better, since they are not so thick. Yellow ocher One needs a little of it in every flesh color.
 One needs a little of it in every flesh color. Fatty oil It is not good for working with colors because it
 it makes them thick, & as difficult to work as azur d’esmail . Therefore use the clearest walnut oil that you can,
 as difficult to work as azur d’esmail. Therefore use the clearest walnut oil that you can, & the freshest. Softening One softens in
 the freshest. Softening One softens in the same way on oiled paper as on wood. But it is easier to soften on
 softens in the same way on oiled paper as on wood . But it is easier to soften on canvas, because
 as on wood. But it is easier to soften on canvas , because the softening must be rougher on it. Vermilion
 on canvas, because the softening must be rougher on it. Vermilion One ought not to keep it in water when tempered
 on it. Vermilion One ought not to keep it in water when tempered ground with oil for it loses its color.
 not to keep it in water when tempered ground with oil for it loses its color. It is better to choose
 it loses its color. It is better to choose whitish vermilion than dark & blackish. For vermilion is commonly mixed with
 better to choose whitish vermilion than dark & blackish. For vermilion is commonly mixed with a little lake, without which it
 & blackish. For vermilion is commonly mixed with a little lake , without which it would hardly be different from minium.
 little lake, without which it would hardly be different from minium . But the pale casts more vivacity than the dark.
 is not desiccative, & for this reason one mixes in calcined cristallin . Eye Every eye must follow the circle of the
 circle of the compass & not be flat & square. Oil colors in water Commonly, after grinding them one puts a
 compass & not be flat & square. Oil colors in water Commonly, after grinding them one puts a fo piece of
 Commonly, after grinding them one puts a fo piece of tin leaf on top, & one puts them in water to prevent
 of tin leaf on top, & one puts them in water to prevent them from drying out. But this is more
 them from drying out. But this is more appropriate for ceruse , lead white, minium, & massicot than for the others,
 from drying out. But this is more appropriate for ceruse, lead white , minium, & massicot than for the others, for lake
 out. But this is more appropriate for ceruse, lead white, minium , & massicot than for the others, for lake dies
 this is more appropriate for ceruse, lead white, minium, & massicot than for the others, for lake dies there & loses
 lead white, minium, & massicot than for the others, for lake dies there & loses its color, also azure, vermilion. Double
 others, for lake dies there & loses its color, also azure , vermilion. Double layer Verdigris does not die, & thus
 for lake dies there & loses its color, also azure, vermilion . Double layer Verdigris does not die, & thus does
 there & loses its color, also azure, vermilion. Double layer Verdigris does not die, & thus does not need to be
 & thus does not need to be layered twice. But lake & others, & principally flesh colors, the require two layers.
 dry. Apprenticeship of the painter First, one gives him an egg to do in which one has him make half a
 three, finally a history, teaching him how to hold the charcoal by the end, & also the paintbrush. Once he knows
 him with these strokes & lines. CThe figure of the egg is the main pattern for faces and for bent bodies,
 thickly, but rather layer them twice, if it is not azur d’esmail . All colors that have no body in oil have
 not azur d’esmail. All colors that have no body in oil have none in distemper, and but in distemper they sink
 colors that have no body in oil have none in distemper , and but in distemper they sink to the bottom.
 body in oil have none in distemper, and but in distemper they sink to the bottom. Distemper colors want to be
 distemper, and but in distemper they sink to the bottom. Distemper colors want to be fatty, which is recognized when they
 when they take hold on the palette once tempered in oil . Straight lines You can use the ruler, but do
 everything, & also you would not see the stroke well. Distemper Distemper colors need to be kept darker pr while you
 & also you would not see the stroke well. Distemper Distemper colors need to be kept darker pr while you temper
 while you temper them, because they whiten while drying. But oil colors remain the same color. Shadows Because blacks make different
 those which tend toward yellow to make beautiful shadows in oil , for the shadow, especially that of men, is yellowish.
 is yellowish. And for this effect use very strongly ground jet , which you will mix with a little yellow ocher
 strongly ground jet, which you will mix with a little yellow ocher & lead white. Or else, after you have ground your
 which you will mix with a little yellow ocher & lead white . Or else, after you have ground your lead white
 & lead white. Or else, after you have ground your lead white bro and clean p gathered it with the , grind
 and clean p gathered it with the , grind the jet into it. Thus it will be more desiccative, & making
 women’s shadows. Take, then, some black of , a little sap-green & bistre, & you will have a perfect shadow for
 Take, then, some black of , a little sap-green & bistre , & you will have a perfect shadow for women
 & you will have a perfect shadow for women in distemper . The powder of orberé grain is darker than umber
 a perfect shadow for women in distemper. The powder of orberé grain is darker than umber & when you lack umber, the
 in distemper. The powder of orberé grain is darker than umber & when you lack umber, the said powder will do,
 orberé grain is darker than umber & when you lack umber , the said powder will do, but it does not
 you make flesh colors, it is good to have a cristallin mirror, which represents nature well, and in which it you
 would not take easily, unless you rub this place with soap or breathe on it, because the humidity will make the
 the humidity will make the colors take. One cannot layer oil on cut paper & model as in distemper because the
 make the colors take. One cannot layer oil on cut paper & model as in distemper because the color would run.
 cannot layer oil on cut paper & model as in distemper because the color would run. Thus, to gild with or
 as in distemper because the color would run. Thus, to gild with or mat, one needs to pounce & then layer
 distemper because the color would run. Thus, to gild with or mat , one needs to pounce & then layer the gold
 or mat, one needs to pounce & then layer the gold color with the paintbrush. All fatty colors, such as ceruse and
 gold color with the paintbrush. All fatty colors, such as ceruse and minium, massicot, ocher, lead white, are good for making
 with the paintbrush. All fatty colors, such as ceruse and minium , massicot, ocher, lead white, are good for making gold
 the paintbrush. All fatty colors, such as ceruse and minium, massicot , ocher, lead white, are good for making gold color.
 paintbrush. All fatty colors, such as ceruse and minium, massicot, ocher , lead white, are good for making gold color. Every
 All fatty colors, such as ceruse and minium, massicot, ocher, lead white , are good for making gold color. Every color or
 gold color. Every color or thing that becomes dense when water is put in during the grinding has body. But those
 body. But those which do not have it, such as pestled glass , lake, &c, become clear. Semi-lively colors When colors aabsorb
 those which do not have it, such as pestled glass, lake , &c, become clear. Semi-lively colors When colors aabsorb into
 &c, become clear. Semi-lively colors When colors aabsorb into the canvas , it means that it has been given imprimatura only
 die & are all the more beautiful for it, especially azure , lake, & those do not have body. But those
 & are all the more beautiful for it, especially azure, lake , & those do not have body. But those who
 From nature There are some who paint from nature on oiled paper , & if they do not finish in one go,
 they do not finish in one go, they put their paper & unfinished picture in water so that it shall not
 one go, they put their paper & unfinished picture in water so that it shall not dry. Illuminators painting on paper
 water so that it shall not dry. Illuminators painting on paper temper their colors with gum & mix in a little
 not dry. Illuminators painting on paper temper their colors with gum & mix in a little soap to make them run
 temper their colors with gum & mix in a little soap to make them run better. Painters must all learn how
 their passage when travelling across the lands with only their cocon. Painting large figures You need to put your charcoal at
 their cocon. Painting large figures You need to put your charcoal at the tip of a stick such that you make
 distance. Also, you when you paint up close, hold your charcoal at the farthest end, & de practically with your fingertips.
 glazes with colors that do not have body, such as lake & verdigris. However, to use other colors, one mixes in
 colors that do not have body, such as lake & verdigris . However, to use other colors, one mixes in a
 to use other colors, one mixes in a quantity of calcined & ground cristallin , which also has no body & makes lightens the
 black for two or three years to become an artist. Lead white It does not die & has a lot of body.
 some will, with gold color which is made with the washings of oil paintbrushes , because verdigris & other corrosive colors which are in
 with gold color which is made with the washings of oil paintbrushes, because verdigris & other corrosive colors which are in
 which is made with the washings of oil paintbrushes, because verdigris & other corrosive colors which are in it will in
 layered on next. It is good to do it with ceruse , & a bit of yellow ocher, & a little
 on next. It is good to do it with ceruse, & a bit of yellow ocher , & a little massicot, & make it not very
 ceruse, & a bit of yellow ocher, & a little massicot , & make it not very thick in order that
 not very thick, to soften them well. Shadows For women, asphaltum , umber, & a little lake. * Or mat It
 very thick, to soften them well. Shadows For women, asphaltum, umber , & a little lake. * Or mat It is
 them well. Shadows For women, asphaltum, umber, & a little lake . * Or mat It is made with massicot, minium,
 Shadows For women, asphaltum, umber, & a little lake. * Or mat It is made with massicot, minium, ocre de ru, &
 a little lake. * Or mat It is made with massicot , minium, ocre de ru, & yellow ochre, in order
 little lake. * Or mat It is made with massicot, minium , ocre de ru, & yellow ochre, in order that
 lake. * Or mat It is made with massicot, minium, ocre de ru , & yellow ochre, in order that the composition resembles
 It is made with massicot, minium, ocre de ru, & yellow ochre , in order that the composition resembles gold. Gild the
 ru, & yellow ochre, in order that the composition resembles gold . Gild the day after un jo it is laid
 one day, next rub the gilding with a feather & cotton in order that no protrusions remain, then varnish with Flanders
 cotton in order that no protrusions remain, then varnish with Flanders varnish , which you make mixed with a little eau-de-vie, to
 with Flanders varnish, which you make mixed with a little eau-de-vie , to render it desiccative. The varnish will be dry
 mixed with a little eau-de-vie, to render it desiccative. The varnish will be dry in an hour. It will increase the
 hour. It will increase the color of gold. And this or mat holds in the rain, even if one rubs it. But
 that is made of different colors cleaned from paintbrushes for oil is not so good, & with time, tarnishes the gold
 good, & with time, tarnishes the gold because of the verdigris . One must not touch with a finger the layer
 gold because that will keep it from attaching itself. The or moulu is spoiled if water touches it, but the or mat
 it from attaching itself. The or moulu is spoiled if water touches it, but the or mat holds well in the
 or moulu is spoiled if water touches it, but the or mat holds well in the rain & in water. One must
 the or mat holds well in the rain & in water . One must not burnish it, because the tooth would
 remove it. Gather the protrusions & small flakes that the cotton makes lift off when the gold is dry & you
 small flakes that the cotton makes lift off when the gold is dry & you clean it, for an ounce is
 dry & you clean it, for an ounce is still gold . In Flanders, women make gild. It is more beautiful
 for an ounce is still gold. In Flanders, women make gild . It is more beautiful when it is a little
 it is not enough. One ought not to gild with or mat after with having gilded. But wait one day or one
 ought not to gild with or mat after with having gilded . But wait one day or one night, But take
 and when it is as if dry, it grips the gold . Next, one varnishes. Painting in distemper on wood Because
 dry, it grips the gold. Next, one varnishes. Painting in distemper on wood Because it is very tedious to paint in
 grips the gold. Next, one varnishes. Painting in distemper on wood Because it is very tedious to paint in distemper on
 on wood Because it is very tedious to paint in distemper on wood, and because one is at pains to make
 Because it is very tedious to paint in distemper on wood , and because one is at pains to make a
 good a face on it, some thin their colors with glair of egg passed through a sponge, or mixed with the yolk, water,
 of egg passed through a sponge, or mixed with the yolk , water, & thoroughly beaten with the peelings of the
 egg passed through a sponge, or mixed with the yolk, water , & thoroughly beaten with the peelings of the fig
 mixed with the yolk, water, & thoroughly beaten with the peelings of the fig tree . With this | they paint & soften on the
 tree. With this | they paint & soften on the wood , as with oil, and this supports the varnish, but
 | they paint & soften on the wood, as with oil , and this supports the varnish, but this does not
 on the wood, as with oil, and this supports the varnish , but this does not last. Colors in oil that
 supports the varnish, but this does not last. Colors in oil that are imbibed It is best that colors in oil
 oil that are imbibed It is best that colors in oil are imbibed, that is to say they do not remain
 they are shiny, it is that the fattiness of the oil has remained in that part, which would make the colors
 in that part, which would make the colors die. The varnish mends all this & unites & renders it similar in
 were clear, it would be imbibed & would run. On canvas & in distemper, one gilds with bole & honey &
 would be imbibed & would run. On canvas & in distemper , one gilds with bole & honey & a little
 would run. On canvas & in distemper, one gilds with bole & honey & a little garlic juice. Gilding molding for
 On canvas & in distemper, one gilds with bole & honey & a little garlic juice. Gilding molding for panels with
 distemper, one gilds with bole & honey & a little garlic juice . Gilding molding for panels with or mat see the
 *
 * The Flemish give a layer of distemper glue on the molding, then mix lamp black or soot black
 a layer of distemper glue on the molding, then mix lamp black or soot black with the same glue & let dry.
 distemper glue on the molding, then mix lamp black or soot black with the same glue & let dry. Next they pounce
 then mix lamp black or soot black with the same glue & let dry. Next they pounce some moresque in the
 pounce some moresque in the corners & paint it with minium , massicot, & ocre de ru, and a little yellow
 some moresque in the corners & paint it with minium, massicot , & ocre de ru, and a little yellow ochre,
 in the corners & paint it with minium, massicot, & ocre de ru , and a little yellow ochre, tempered with fatty oil
 with minium, massicot, & ocre de ru, and a little yellow ochre , tempered with fatty oil in which they clean their
 ocre de ru, and a little yellow ochre, tempered with fatty oil in which they clean their paintbrushes for oil, because the
 with fatty oil in which they clean their paintbrushes for oil , because the three aforesaid colors are gripping & dry
 are gripping & dry immediately. Next they lay down the gold , then varnish on top of all. And it seems
 by this means that all this black is painted in oil , but it would not be good because the gold
 in oil, but it would not be good because the gold would attach itself everywhere & not only to the moresque.
 or twelve hours it will be dry & appropriate for gilding . * To make or mat beautiful, put in a
 will be dry & appropriate for gilding. * To make or mat beautiful, put in a little varnish or fatty oil, not
 * To make or mat beautiful, put in a little varnish or fatty oil, not from that which is made from
 make or mat beautiful, put in a little varnish or fatty oil , not from that which is made from the cleaning
 which is made fatty in the sun or mixed with ceruse . Or mat of this sort is scarcely less beautiful
 is made fatty in the sun or mixed with ceruse. Or mat of this sort is scarcely less beautiful than esburnished gold,
 mat of this sort is scarcely less beautiful than es burnished gold , and lasts longer in the rain, & besides, &
 longer in the rain, & besides, & is made sooner. Burnished gold cracks over time & comes off in the rain. For
 swelling d or to diminish overly large ones Take large loaves of bread freshly drawn from the oven & split them in half &, as hot as may
 continue 4 or 5 days. Next, make a plaster with Venice turpentine or better, common turpentine. Mix in sumac, blackthorn sloes, quince
 days. Next, make a plaster with Venice turpentine or better, common turpentine . Mix in sumac, blackthorn sloes, quince seeds, pomegranate flowers,
 plaster with Venice turpentine or better, common turpentine. Mix in sumac , blackthorn sloes, quince seeds, pomegranate flowers, olive tree leaves,
 with Venice turpentine or better, common turpentine. Mix in sumac, blackthorn sloes , quince seeds, pomegranate flowers, olive tree leaves, & the
 turpentine or better, common turpentine. Mix in sumac, blackthorn sloes, quince seeds , pomegranate flowers, olive tree leaves, & the like, decocted,
 better, common turpentine. Mix in sumac, blackthorn sloes, quince seeds, pomegranate flowers , olive tree leaves, & the like, decocted, & mix
 turpentine. Mix in sumac, blackthorn sloes, quince seeds, pomegranate flowers, olive tree leaves , & the like, decocted, & mix with the turpentine.
 tree leaves, & the like, decocted, & mix with the turpentine . But, I forgot, one needs, after having applied the
 turpentine. But, I forgot, one needs, after having applied the hot bread , which softens & makes one sweat, to put on
 makes one sweat, to put on linen cloths soaked with water from a honey bee hive , that is to say honey & wax extracted all
 water from a honey bee hive, that is to say honey & wax extracted all together from the honeycomb. For attracting
 a honey bee hive, that is to say honey & wax extracted all together from the honeycomb. For attracting pigeons Fry
 extracted all together from the honeycomb. For attracting pigeons Fry hemp seed in a pan with oil & give it to the
 For attracting pigeons Fry hemp seed in a pan with oil & give it to the pigeons. Against bruising of the
 the pigeons. Against bruising of the eyes At night, apply very thin sheets of lead . Singular remedy. Paintbrushes To make them well, cut the
 lead. Singular remedy. Paintbrushes To make them well, cut the hair from the tail of a squirrel’s fur , as much in one go as one can hold
 much in one go as one can hold in a card folded up like a cannule. And putting it thus into
 a cannule. And putting it thus into the said folded card , tap it & shake it such that the hair
 folded card, tap it & shake it such that the hair comes together & is rendered the same length. Put one
 & is rendered the same length. Put one or two bristles of a rat’s whiskers in the middle, then, grabbing it with the fist &
 & index finger, thoroughly wet the tip of all this hair in water, then, moving close to the light, pull out
 finger, thoroughly wet the tip of all this hair in water , then, moving close to the light, pull out the
 water, then, moving close to the light, pull out the hairs which make the tip too long with the ends of
 good to you, & until you notice in it the rat hairs which are entirely black & the hair of the petit-gris
 it the rat hairs which are entirely black & the hair of the petit-gris is at the whitish from the root to the middle.
 places, then cut the excess & fit it in a quill of a convenient thickness for it, of a duck or
 small ones. Good paintbrushes are those that, once dipped in water , do not bulge when you trace on your hand.
 water, do not bulge when you trace on your hand. Oil All oil which is imbibed by paper & once heated
 not bulge when you trace on your hand. Oil All oil which is imbibed by paper & once heated by fire
 on your hand. Oil All oil which is imbibed by paper & once heated by fire evaporates & leaves the paper
 paper & once heated by fire evaporates & leaves the paper clean, like turpentine & spike lavender oil, is good for
 heated by fire evaporates & leaves the paper clean, like turpentine & spike lavender oil, is good for making varnish. Sand
 fire evaporates & leaves the paper clean, like turpentine & spike lavender oil , is good for making varnish. Sand Every ground &
 like turpentine & spike lavender oil, is good for making varnish . Sand Every ground & tempered thing becomes porous, according
 turpentine & spike lavender oil, is good for making varnish. Sand Every ground & tempered thing becomes porous, according to some.
 porous, according to some. Bellows furnace Before putting in the metal , it is necessary that it be red at the
 necessary that it be red at the bottom, like a charcoal & well inflamed. Next, you fill it & cover the
 & well inflamed. Next, you fill it & cover the charcoal & adjust the bellows, otherwise the metal on top would
 & cover the charcoal & adjust the bellows, otherwise the metal on top would melt by means of the bellows &
 proceed in this manner you will melt everything you like. Varnish on paper The Germans make boxes p covered with painted
 this manner you will melt everything you like. Varnish on paper The Germans make boxes p covered with painted paper &
 on paper The Germans make boxes p covered with painted paper & varnish it with glair of egg mixed with gum
 boxes p covered with painted paper & varnish it with glair of egg mixed with gum & a little oil, not of spike
 paper & varnish it with glair of egg mixed with gum & a little oil, not of spike lavender, but another
 with glair of egg mixed with gum & a little oil, not of spike lavender, but another fragrant one that resembles olive oil . Every work done with glair supports oil. It is
 with glair of egg mixed with gum & a little oil , not of spike lavender, but another fragrant one that
 egg mixed with gum & a little oil, not of spike lavender , but another fragrant one that resembles olive oil. Every
 gum & a little oil, not of spike lavender, but another fragrant one that resembles olive oil . Every work done with glair supports oil. It is
 fragrant one that resembles olive oil. Every work done with glair supports oil. It is with this that painters trick the
 that resembles olive oil. Every work done with glair supports oil . It is with this that painters trick the poor
 that painters trick the poor peasants, painting their bands of taffeta with this glair, to be done sooner. But the first
 the poor peasants, painting their bands of taffeta with this glair , to be done sooner. But the first rain carries
 trempées à pacquet, that is, in the fashion described, with soot , salt, & vinegar, they will not be good. The
 à pacquet, that is, in the fashion described, with soot, salt , & vinegar, they will not be good. The square
 that is, in the fashion described, with soot, salt, & vinegar , they will not be good. The square large square
 by locksmiths for their rough work are only made of soft iron , but the soft files must be made of steel.
 soft iron, but the soft files must be made of steel . Founders whose work is to repair latten & copper
 be made of steel. Founders whose work is to repair latten & copper must have their files d coarse otherwise they
 of steel. Founders whose work is to repair latten & copper must have their files d coarse otherwise they would fill
 files d coarse otherwise they would fill up with the copper which would make them smooth & soon render them useless.
 which would make them smooth & soon render them useless. Latten , which is more brittle, welcomes softer files than copper
 useless. Latten, which is more brittle, welcomes softer files than copper does. Bones of the foot of oxen for sand Once
 which is more brittle, welcomes softer files than copper does. Bones of the foot of oxen for sand Once having been burned well twice & pulverized, they mold
 burned well twice & pulverized, they mold very neatly in sand & need not be reheated, but simply heated with the
 not be reheated, but simply heated with the flame of straw . But if you mold them en noyau, give it
 to dry at ease. Next, fortify the following layers with wadding mixed with the said tempered sand of bone. It is
 the following layers with wadding mixed with the said tempered sand of bone . It is the neatest sand that can be found
 with the said tempered sand of bone. It is the neatest sand that can be found for copper . Essential oils Walnut oil mixed with as much of
 It is the neatest sand that can be found for copper . Essential oils Walnut oil mixed with as much of
 is the neatest sand that can be found for copper. Essential oils Walnut oil mixed with as much of turpentine & distilled
 neatest sand that can be found for copper. Essential oils Walnut oil mixed with as much of turpentine & distilled through an
 copper. Essential oils Walnut oil mixed with as much of turpentine & distilled through an alembic renders an essence whiter than
 & distilled through an alembic renders an essence whiter than common water . But this has no body & does not give
 you leisure to work and soften any more than in distemper . But you mend this defect by giving it a
 mend this defect by giving it a little body with turpentine , not at all so thick as for varnish. And
 thick as for varnish. And thus you can work with azur d’esmail & will make a perfect lead white. Turpentine varnish made
 can work with azur d’esmail & will make a perfect lead white . Turpentine varnish made with this oil is dry in
 with azur d’esmail & will make a perfect lead white. Turpentine varnish made with this oil is dry in one hour. Fanciful
 make a perfect lead white. Turpentine varnish made with this oil is dry in one hour. Fanciful tables You can make
 these, put fishes painted from nature & with colors on simple carton , & if you please, on silvered & burnished paper
 with colors on simple carton, & if you please, on silvered & burnished paper which will represent the scales. And next, cover this with
 which will represent the scales. And next, cover this with very clear lantern horn . You can apply the same to other works. Planting
 them in dry place dry weather, & gather plenty of earth at the foot all around, like a mound, in order
 chalk, pestled glass, tripoli & burnt
 chalk, pestled glass, tripoli & burnt linen, all
 chalk, pestled glass, tripoli & burnt linen, all 4
 chalk , pestled glass, tripoli & burnt linen, all 4 excellent.
 chalk, pestled glass , tripoli & burnt linen, all 4 excellent. But as
 chalk, pestled glass, tripoli & burnt linen, all 4 excellent. But as for the
 chalk, pestled glass, tripoli & burnt linen , all 4 excellent. But as for the chalk, it
 & burnt linen, all 4 excellent. But as for the chalk , it needs to be of the softest kind you
 to be of the softest kind you can find, like the Champagne one that painters use . It releases very neatly, does not want to be
 releases very neatly, does not want to be moistened with magistra or anything else, but needs to be completely dry, in
 you want to remake your frame mold to take new powdered chalk that has not yet been put to use, for the
 have as much hold & bond like the fresh one. Pestled glass can be made from common glass sand, however, cristallin is
 like the fresh one. Pestled glass can be made from common glass sand , however, cristallin is more excellent, for common glass contains
 Pestled glass can be made from common glass sand, however, cristallin is more excellent, for common glass contains glass salt of
 sand, however, cristallin is more excellent, for common glass contains glass salt of saltwort only, but cristallin contains both salt of
 however, cristallin is more excellent, for common glass contains glass salt of saltwort only, but cristallin contains both salt of tartar & saltwort
 for common glass contains glass salt of saltwort only, but cristallin contains both salt of tartar & saltwort all together, which
 contains glass salt of saltwort only, but cristallin contains both salt of tartar & saltwort all together, which both help fusion, the glass
 saltwort only, but cristallin contains both salt of tartar & saltwort all together, which both help fusion, the glass once calcined
 tartar & saltwort all together, which both help fusion, the glass once calcined & reduced as if to its prime substance.
 In order to calcine it perfectly, throw your pieces of glass , whichever it be, among the largest possible lit charcoals
 of glass, whichever it be, among the largest possible lit charcoals that you can, if you are lacking another amenity tfor
 firet. And when it is well red, throw it into water Putty is considered excellent for these two metals. and immediately
 And when it is well red, throw it into water Putty is considered excellent for these two metals. and immediately you
 it into water Putty is considered excellent for these two metals . and immediately you will be able to crumble it
 between your fingers and easily pestle in a mortar of metal , or better yet, of iron. Next, it will be
 pestle in a mortar of metal, or better yet, of iron . Next, it will be easy to grind it, not
 it will be easy to grind it, not only on common marble that would corrode, but on porphyry, and it is necessary
 not only on common marble that would corrode, but on porphyry , and it is necessary that it be finely ground
 and it is necessary that it be finely ground with water so that when putting it on your fingernail, you find
 asperity, like the p colors that the painters grind for oil . This one, once dry, you can use au lie
 one, once dry, you can use au lie instead of sand , in a frame without moistening it with anything nor
 you do not want to; fumigate the hollow form with sulfur smoke or de p with the tip of the flame of
 de p with the tip of the flame of a wax candle that barely makes smoke, and it will make a very
 of the flame of a wax candle that barely makes smoke , and it will make a very neat & shiny
 make a very neat & shiny & polished work, in pure lead & tin. I would say the same for finely pulverized
 neat & shiny & polished work, in pure lead & tin . I would say the same for finely pulverized tripoli
 pure lead & tin. I would say the same for finely pulverized tripoli that does not want to be not reheated or moistened.
 that does not want to be not reheated or moistened. Burnt linen gives less trouble than any other, because it needs neither
 until it wears it out, then finely grind it on marble or on a paper. But because a lot And if
 out, then finely grind it on marble or on a paper . But because a lot And if you reheat it
 it will be even better. But because a lot of linen is reduced to very little when burned, if you want
 to mold & cover it, and fill the frame with pestled slate , which molds also very neatly. But note that the
 the most beautiful & the neatest. If you cast opportunely, soft tin that seems to be burnished in little wheels that pewterers
 sell, comes out very neatly & approaching the color of silver , without mixing in anything. It is true that one
 of heat that it promptly burns in a shiver a paper or straw placed inside. Then remove it from the fire
 that it promptly burns in a shiver a paper or straw placed inside. Then remove it from the fire & leave
 fire & leave it to rest a little & cast. Tin mixed with half lead comes out almost better than pure
 to rest a little & cast. Tin mixed with half lead comes out almost better than pure tin pure or or
 Tin mixed with half lead comes out almost better than pure tin pure or or lead , even though in any case they come out well.
 they come out well. Nevertheless take care not to cast lead at all as hot as tin. In big works it
 care not to cast lead at all as hot as tin . In big works it is necessary to moisten the
 tin. In big works it is necessary to moisten the sands with magistra or glair of egg. Joiner Three things take
 big works it is necessary to moisten the sands with magistra or glair of egg. Joiner Three things take the longest
 leaves,
 leaves, hair & garlands. Sand You should not choose for casting the one that is
 lean & arid that it does not have bond, like the one from the sea or desei from sandy paths dried out by the sun.
 have bond, like the one from the sea or desei from sandy paths dried out by the sun . But choose them or in t in the first
 rocks or quarries qu that seem to be made of arene , you see, after rainy weather, certain small patches like
 easily crushes between your hands. You will also find in lean soils some which comes off in lop large lumps like stones
 soils some which comes off in lop large lumps like stones of tuf et ne, or among terres bolvenes, which are much better
 large lumps like stones of tuf et ne, or among terres bolvenes , which are much better than those in fatty &
 among terres bolvenes, which are much better than those in fatty & strong earths . And one ought not to take it from the
 from the surface, for fear that it be mixed with common earth , but three or 4 feet below & the closest
 three or 4 feet below & the closest to the tuf or stone. Since it comes out in large lumps one
 4 feet below & the closest to the tuf or stone . Since it comes out in large lumps one would
 great subtlety, like impalpable, keeping nevertheless its sandy asperity, without muddying the fingers like clay. It is dried slightly on the
 keeping nevertheless its sandy asperity, without muddying the fingers like clay . It is dried slightly on the fire, then it
 pestled & passed finely through a double sieve or a linen sleeve, then is moistened with wine or magistra &c /
 double sieve or a linen sleeve, then is moistened with wine or magistra &c / Verte The Toulouse molder reheats it
 or a linen sleeve, then is moistened with wine or magistra &c / Verte The Toulouse molder reheats it strongly then
 Toulouse molder reheats it strongly then grinds it finely on marble and passes it through a linen & moistens pass it
 grinds it finely on marble and passes it through a linen & moistens pass it with wine. He makes the cast
 passes it through a linen & moistens pass it with wine . He makes the cast very broad & ne flat
 very broad & ne flat & barely deep. He casts pure latton used for trebuschets & similar thin things. He casts very hot. Try calcined
 trebuschets & similar thin things. He casts very hot. Try calcined vitriol . The sand near my area is very excellent. But
 thin things. He casts very hot. Try calcined vitriol. The sand near my area is very excellent. But one ought to, in order to
 hardly any thickness, it is necessary that your substance of copper be very hot so that it penetrates & runs. Some
 very hot so that it penetrates & runs. Some mix lead in this melt, but it is for large works &
 it is for large works & not for small ones. Sand from oxen feet, burned twice & finely ground , melts more neatly with copper than sand that I
 feet, burned twice & finely ground, melts more neatly with copper than sand that I have seen, & without crust. I
 twice & finely ground, melts more neatly with copper than sand that I have seen, & without crust. I have cast
 relief, which was on other side. It is necessary that lean sands be more moistened than others, namely with magistra or good
 that lean sands be more moistened than others, namely with magistra or good pure wine or boiled wine with elm tree
 be more moistened than others, namely with magistra or good pure wine or boiled wine with elm tree roots & similar things.
 than others, namely with magistra or good pure wine or boiled wine with elm tree roots & similar things. But very fine sands, like burned linen,
 boiled wine with elm tree roots & similar things. But very fine sands , like burned linen, which is fatty & soft on
 tree roots & similar things. But very fine sands, like burned linen , which is fatty & soft on its own, want
 soft on its own, want to be applied dry. All moistened sand wants to be strongly beaten & stirred, to be ground
 that it makes in itself when it is bathed. The olive oil that some mix in with beaten egg glair makes it
 is bathed. The olive oil that some mix in with beaten egg glair makes it become porous. Sand of calcined glass withstands several
 mix in with beaten egg glair makes it become porous. Sand of calcined glass withstands several fusions, but there is nothing like the first
 is nothing like the first ones. It also becomes porous. Latten comes out well on its own, but it runs too
 quickly. It is good to mix it with a little copper , like a quarter part, with the substance of skillets.
 with a little copper, like a quarter part, with the substance of skillets . Founders do cast frames up to 30 or 40
 alloyed with some fatty thing which has bond such as molded tripoli or ab burned felt or sal ammoniac or tripoli &
 thing which has bond such as molded tripoli or ab burned felt or sal ammoniac or tripoli & similar things. When you
 bond such as molded tripoli or ab burned felt or sal ammoniac or tripoli & similar things. When you have molded, it
 molded tripoli or ab burned felt or sal ammoniac or tripoli & similar things. When you have molded, it is good
 because the cast is imprinted with the quality eof the metal , which afterward runs more easily in something that comes
 afterward runs more easily in something that comes from it. Human bones are the best for casting once calcined. To cast neatly,
 achieve this, when your substance is melted, throw in some iron scales , either in powder or otherwise E, for it heats
 scales, either in powder or otherwise E, for it heats copper a lot & cleanses it of its grease. At the
 it heats copper a lot & cleanses it of its grease . At the end, when you want to cast, add
 At the end, when you want to cast, add some saltpeter , by folding your additions in a paper in order
 cast, add some saltpeter, by folding your additions in a paper in order that everyone may not know what you mix
 order that everyone may not know what you mix in. Sheep foot bones are even better than those of oxen foot. Oil &
 you mix in. Sheep foot bones are even better than those of oxen foot . Oil & tallow make it very porous, & pestled
 foot bones are even better than those of oxen foot. Oil & tallow make it very porous, & pestled glass, &
 are even better than those of oxen foot. Oil & tallow make it very porous, & pestled glass, & copper alone.
 oxen foot. Oil & tallow make it very porous, & pestled glass , & copper alone. Cendrée earth molds very neatly. Ash
 & tallow make it very porous, & pestled glass, & copper alone. Cendrée earth molds very neatly. Ash does not have
 make it very porous, & pestled glass, & copper alone. Cendrée earth molds very neatly. Ash does not have enough body to
 pestled glass, & copper alone. Cendrée earth molds very neatly. Ash does not have enough body to withstand copper. It is
 very neatly. Ash does not have enough body to withstand copper . It is better not to mix the sands, but
 to withstand copper. It is better not to mix the sands , but to fill the frame with one only. Latten
 the sands, but to fill the frame with one only. Latten is always fatty, & does not mold neatly. One finds
 that it comes out better alloyed with a quarter of copper , but let it be cast very hot. Copper comes
 quarter of copper, but let it be cast very hot. Copper comes out well with a bit of metal. If you
 very hot. Copper comes out well with a bit of metal . If you mix in metal within latten, it will
 well with a bit of metal. If you mix in metal within latten, it will be more brittle & more troublesome.
 a bit of metal. If you mix in metal within latten , it will be more brittle & more troublesome. Slightly
 within latten, it will be more brittle & more troublesome. Slightly coarser sand has more body. Sand from corp rock is always better,
 brittle & more troublesome. Slightly coarser sand has more body. Sand from corp rock is always better, which seems like tuf in lumps, which
 Sand from corp rock is always better, which seems like tuf in lumps, which has a beautiful & very fine grain,
 a skillet on the fire, until it is no longer smokes , then one passes it through a fine & double
 a fine & double sieve, & one molds with it. Copper or latten cannot come out well if the medal does
 & double sieve, & one molds with it. Copper or latten cannot come out well if the medal does not sufficient
 if it does not have it, give it some with wax . Some cast through a hole made in the middle
 of the medal. Some, wanting to cast large works in latten , y mix in the sand some pestled glass to
 to cast large works in latten, y mix in the sand some pestled glass to give the earth bond. But it
 large works in latten, y mix in the sand some pestled glass to give the earth bond. But it makes it porous,
 mix in the sand some pestled glass to give the earth bond. But it makes it porous, and the work needs
 and the work needs to be repaired. One puts in lead for a large work to make it run, but not
 not for in a small one because it would leave filth all around the work. Copper is bett and latten are
 one because it would leave filth all around the work. Copper is bett and latten are proper to cast & at
 leave filth all around the work. Copper is bett and latten are proper to cast & at the right heat when
 & that the bath is very liquid. Some cast in well ground ceruse pour le, others in flour moistened several times with oil
 Some cast in well ground ceruse pour le, others in flour moistened several times with oil & g & dried in
 ceruse pour le, others in flour moistened several times with oil & g & dried in the sun. Others, for casting
 g & dried in the sun. Others, for casting in lead , old printers' type or the composition thereof. Others put
 & dried in the sun. Others, for casting in lead, old printers' type or the composition thereof. Others put into the tin or
 Others, for casting in lead, old printers' type or the composition thereof . Others put into the tin or lead a substance
 printers' type or the composition thereof. Others put into the tin or lead a substance of fixed quicksilver which makes it
 or the composition thereof. Others put into the tin or lead a substance of fixed quicksilver which makes it run. Amber
 Others put into the tin or lead a substance of fixed quicksilver which makes it run. Amber It softens like paste when
 lead a substance of fixed quicksilver which makes it run. Amber It softens like paste when boiled in melted wax, and
 fixed quicksilver which makes it run. Amber It softens like paste when boiled in melted wax, and takes color boiled with
 it run. Amber It softens like paste when boiled in melted wax , and takes color boiled with ceru fat of a
 boiled in melted wax, and takes color boiled with ceru fat of a young goat kid , for that of a goat buck would make it
 buck would make it break, principally if it is glazed. Wood with streaked grain The elm, in its knotty root, has beautiful streaks diversified
 principally if it is glazed. Wood with streaked grain The elm , in its knotty root, has beautiful streaks diversified with
 has beautiful streaks diversified with grey and black, and the root of the maple , but one needs to chose well the grain of
 but one needs to chose well the grain of the wood . One gives the maple a certain yellow color, then
 chose well the grain of the wood. One gives the maple a certain yellow color, then one varnishes it. Mulled and
 certain yellow color, then one varnishes it. Mulled and sugared wine The English, when they feel a cold coming on, mull
 The English, when they feel a cold coming on, mull wine in this manner. They heat it in a large tin
 wine in this manner. They heat it in a large tin pot until it boils, and when it is boiling up,
 is boiling up, they remove it from light it with burning paper to know if it is hot enough. Next, to ignite
 one vessel into another, as one who wants to beat eau panée , and as they are doing this, someone else lights
 as they are doing this, someone else lights with a burning paper what is falling from one vessel into the other, such
 that you would think you were pouring fire. When the wine is mulled enough, heat it again a little, adding a
 mulled enough, heat it again a little, adding a few cloves & a sufficient quantity of sugar. And they dri drink
 little, adding a few cloves & a sufficient quantity of sugar . And they dri drink it as hot as they
 they can to overcome a cold. The common English put sugar in wine to affect for themselves the sweet new wine
 to overcome a cold. The common English put sugar in wine to affect for themselves the sweet new wine which they
 English put sugar in wine to affect for themselves the sweet new wine which they cannot have because, owing to the long sea
 cannot have because, owing to the long sea crossing, the wine has lost its sweetness and is clarified before it reaches
 harried horse, they make it drink some of the aforesaid wine through a horn, and it finds itself disposed for doing
 it finds itself disposed for doing an even greater labor. Eau-de-vie The Irish do not drink any wine because they convert
 even greater labor. Eau-de-vie The Irish do not drink any wine because they convert it into eau-de-vie, which they use almost
 do not drink any wine because they convert it into eau-de-vie , which they use almost as habitually as we use
 eau-de-vie, which they use almost as habitually as we use wine . Varnish To a half lb of spike lavender oil,
 which they use almost as habitually as we use wine. Varnish To a half lb of spike lavender oil, put in
 as we use wine. Varnish To a half lb of spike lavender oil , put in 4 ℥ of sandarac & mastic subtly
 lb of spike lavender oil, put in 4 ℥ of sandarac & mastic subtly pulverized. And first, boil your oil in
 spike lavender oil, put in 4 ℥ of sandarac & mastic subtly pulverized . And first, boil your oil in a pot on
 of sandarac & mastic subtly pulverized. And first, boil your oil in a pot on a chafing dish, and then mix
 dish, and then mix in little by little the aforesaid gums , stirring continually with a small stick split and quartered
 quartered at the tip, & when you do not collect gum with the tip, that is to say that it is
 to say that it is totally melted & that your varnish is done. And to render it clearer, put in a
 to render it clearer, put in a small lump of camphor to decoct. It is true that with this it is
 it is not dry so soon. Heed well that the spike lavender oil be good, clear & not fatty, otherwise your varnish would
 lavender oil be good, clear & not fatty, otherwise your varnish would be worth nothing. You can test it d by
 worth nothing. You can test it d by soaking some paper in it & heating it. If the oil, which will
 soaking some paper in it & heating it. If the oil , which will evaporate, leaves the paper clean, without being
 heating it. If the oil, which will evaporate, leaves the paper clean, without being a yellow mark, it is good, if
 Ireland, there are none, & if one touches them with wood that is there, they die. This is why some rich
 some rich people of England make their ceilings from this wood , & by this method, they never have cobwebs &
 & by this method, they never have cobwebs & spiderwebs. Sand Grindings are very good for casting in copper, but one
 by this method, they never have cobwebs & spiderwebs. Sand Grindings are very good for casting in copper, but one ought
 & spiderwebs. Sand Grindings are very good for casting in copper , but one ought not to take those of cutlers,
 for casting in copper, but one ought not to take those of cutlers , because it is only sludge, but rather those of
 not to take those of cutlers, because it is only sludge , but rather those of those who grind mold large
 but rather those of those who grind mold large shears. Pierres de filieres , with which those who sharpen, mold very neatly, once
 which those who sharpen, mold very neatly, once scraped, for lead . It is commonly slate-colored. One frequently brings them to
 mold very neatly, once scraped, for lead. It is commonly slate -colored. One frequently brings them to Toulouse from around Carcassonne
 . Printer’s letters Those who make them, mix into the lead some nails nailheads & old horseshoes, & antimony which makes
 letters Those who make them, mix into the lead some nails nailheads & old horseshoes, & antimony which makes it all
 Those who make them, mix into the lead some nails nailheads & old horseshoes, & antimony which makes it all melt.
 make them, mix into the lead some nails nailheads & old horseshoes , & antimony which makes it all melt. This composition
 into the lead some nails nailheads & old horseshoes, & antimony which makes it all melt. This composition is strong for
 holds up. It runs and is good for casting in lead . Casting in copper It is necessary that the frame
 runs and is good for casting in lead. Casting in copper It is necessary that the frame be quite even &
 not shift when one molds. It is necessary that the sand be clean & well chosen and well reheated, & pulverized
 well chosen and well reheated, & pulverized very finely on marble , for the one that you want to put first
 medal, and that you press strongly when molding. Guard against oiling your medal, for this would make it porous. Reheat slowly
 Reheat slowly and reheat well, & let cool. Moisten your sand with wine boiled with elm root, and cast latten which
 and reheat well, & let cool. Moisten your sand with wine boiled with elm root , and cast latten which comes out well / namely
 your sand with wine boiled with elm root, and cast latten which comes out well / namely from the substance of
 cast latten which comes out well / namely from the substance of the trebuschets and similar thin things. Make your gate broad & even
 frame does not have vents, make some qu in the sand , which come from the edges of the piece, to
 the mouth of the furnace well covered with some large copper tile or other similar thing, which should be very red
 mouth of the furnace well covered with some large copper tile or other similar thing, which should be very red before
 want to cast, take your red-hot pincers & the crooked iron as well, to clean the charcoals which are in your
 pincers & the crooked iron as well, to clean the charcoals which are in your substance. Having cast, rub your work
 in your substance. Having cast, rub your work with a latten wirebrush. The grindings from sharpening large scissors & large knives
 Having cast, rub your work with a latten wirebrush. The grindings from sharpening large scissors & large knives is very good for copper. One believes it to be
 sharpening large scissors & large knives is very good for copper . One believes it to be a great secret to
 believes it to be a great secret to put in persicaire , which renders them soft as lead.Try to extract salts
 secret to put in persicaire, which renders them soft as lead .Try to extract salts from it. Casting Lead, which is
 in persicaire, which renders them soft as lead.Try to extract salts from it. Casting Lead, which is mortified & weighty, wants
 them soft as lead.Try to extract salts from it. Casting Lead , which is mortified & weighty, wants to be cast
 & weighty, wants to be cast hot, more so than tin . And when it is not hot enough, it makes
 not hot enough, it makes lines in the medal. It Straw burns in it, however little hot it is. One can
 it, however little hot it is. One can make a solder so soft & runny that it can be melted in
 soft & runny that it can be melted in a tin dish. It is composed of one part looking-glass tin, one
 in a tin dish. It is composed of one part looking-glass tin , one part soft tin, & another part lead. It
 It is composed of one part looking-glass tin, one part soft tin , & another part lead. It runs very neatly and
 part looking-glass tin, one part soft tin, & another part lead . It runs very neatly and is cast in leaves,
 but the work is very brittle & breakable. The best solder is the common one for casting well, but is leaves
 for casting well, but is leaves certain points lumpy. Alloy lead with tin so that the ingot that you will cast
 well, but is leaves certain points lumpy. Alloy lead with tin so that the ingot that you will cast comes out
 And this sign will tell you that there is enough tin , otherwise the lead dominates too much. Sand is good
 will tell you that there is enough tin, otherwise the lead dominates too much. Sand is good for lead & tin.
 there is enough tin, otherwise the lead dominates too much. Sand is good for lead & tin. The good one is
 otherwise the lead dominates too much. Sand is good for lead & tin. The good one is very thin & fine
 lead dominates too much. Sand is good for lead & tin . The good one is very thin & fine &
 & lean, which nonetheless sticks together between one’s fingers. The sand wants to be reheated before putting it to use. And
 it first on the piece to mold. One makes a solder with quicksilver but which is white, but it is brittle.
 on the piece to mold. One makes a solder with quicksilver but which is white, but it is brittle. Make it
 see the light between the joints. The Germans cast their leads very thinly, because it seems they come out better than
 not too pliant, being so thin, they mix a little tin with the said lead, which otherwise would bend like wax.
 so thin, they mix a little tin with the said lead , which otherwise would bend like wax. The blackest lead,
 tin with the said lead, which otherwise would bend like wax . The blackest lead, so some say, is the best
 said lead, which otherwise would bend like wax. The blackest lead , so some say, is the best & the softest
 render it very black immediately. The alloy good for running lead & tin is per one lb of lead, one lb
 very black immediately. The alloy good for running lead & tin is per one lb of lead, one lb & a
 for running lead & tin is per one lb of lead , one lb & a half of tin aultr, in
 one lb of lead, one lb & a half of tin aultr, in order that the tin exceeds more than one
 & a half of tin aultr, in order that the tin exceeds more than one part. It is solder which flows
 that the tin exceeds more than one part. It is solder which flows well & is good for casting, but it
 good for casting, but it is brittle. To make the lead flow well, one puts in a little quicksilver. Rub cuttlefish
 make the lead flow well, one puts in a little quicksilver . Rub cuttlefish bone on a well evened table to
 lead flow well, one puts in a little quicksilver. Rub cuttlefish bone on a well evened table to flatten it & one
 & one against the other & pierce through the two bones with pegs to mark the place. Cuttlefish bone molds lead
 through the two bones with pegs to mark the place. Cuttlefish bone molds lead better than anything else. But try it to
 bones with pegs to mark the place. Cuttlefish bone molds lead better than anything else. But try it to see if
 reheating. One ought to mold on the back of the bones & from this side for the marrow is more delicate
 back of the bones & from this side for the marrow is more delicate there. The bone marrow toward the tail
 this side for the marrow is more delicate there. The bone marrow toward the tail is more delicate & does have not
 have not as many stripes & molds more cleanly. The shell which holds the marrow, once calcined, is good for making
 stripes & molds more cleanly. The shell which holds the marrow , once calcined, is good for making sand. When you
 which holds the marrow, once calcined, is good for making sand . When you cast lead, you need to cast it
 once calcined, is good for making sand. When you cast lead , you need to cast it cast very neatly rather
 rest a little before casting. Some, such as printers, mix iron or pin filings in the lead, but in order to render it hard.
 such as printers, mix iron or pin filings in the lead , but in order to render it hard. But this
 hammer. Take a wirebrush to clean your molds. For making blue varnish Take the blue of flowers florey or of Flanders &
 to clean your molds. For making blue varnish Take the blue of flowers florey or of Flanders & quicklime, and put around four fingers of water over
 Take the blue of flowers florey or of Flanders & quicklime , and put around four fingers of water over it,
 of Flanders & quicklime, and put around four fingers of water over it, and let it soak one day. Take the
 over it, and let it soak one day. Take the water where the said lime has soaked, and put your blue
 it soak one day. Take the water where the said lime has soaked, and put your blue with it, and lay
 water where the said lime has soaked, and put your blue with it, and lay it down on the wood. For
 your blue with it, and lay it down on the wood . For orange color Take water in which lime has
 lay it down on the wood. For orange color Take water in which lime has soaked and put terroy merita, one
 on the wood. For orange color Take water in which lime has soaked and put terroy merita, one with the other,
 color Take water in which lime has soaked and put terroy merita , one with the other, and then set on your
 merita, one with the other, and then set on your wood . For ridding bone or horn of grease One needs
 the other, and then set on your wood. For ridding bone or horn of grease One needs to make them boil
 and then set on your wood. For ridding bone or horn of grease One needs to make them boil in quicklime,
 horn of grease One needs to make them boil in quicklime , and let there always be water, and take a
 make them boil in quicklime, and let there always be water , and take a very clean pan. And when they
 pan. And when they are washed, boil them in the ash of vine shoots , and put them into the hottest pot you can,
 the hottest pot you can, and put into the pot goldsmith’s water , verdigris, and leave for the space of some time,
 pot you can, and put into the pot goldsmith’s water, verdigris , and leave for the space of some time, and
 will see a very beautiful green color. For making gray wood Take alum with river water, make them boil together, then
 a very beautiful green color. For making gray wood Take alum with river water, make them boil together, then take river
 beautiful green color. For making gray wood Take alum with river water , make them boil together, then take river water with
 alum with river water, make them boil together, then take river water with bran, submerge the bran and beat it together. Take
 water, make them boil together, then take river water with bran , submerge the bran and beat it together. Take iron
 boil together, then take river water with bran, submerge the bran and beat it together. Take iron filings & sulfur &
 with bran, submerge the bran and beat it together. Take iron filings & sulfur & verdigris and grindings , and make it
 the bran and beat it together. Take iron filings & sulfur & verdigris and grindings , and make it all boil
 and beat it together. Take iron filings & sulfur & verdigris and grindings , and make it all boil together, and
 it together. Take iron filings & sulfur & verdigris and grindings , and make it all boil together, and pound maplewood
 grindings , and make it all boil together, and pound maplewood which will have been soaked in alum water and well
 together, and pound maplewood which will have been soaked in alum water and well water, & put it to boil together. All
 maplewood which will have been soaked in alum water and well water , & put it to boil together. All of this
 All of this will be done better in a hollow grais . For making bronze in gold color Take one ounce
 will be done better in a hollow grais. For making bronze in gold color Take one ounce of sal ammoniac and
 For making bronze in gold color Take one ounce of sal ammoniac and grind it in an iron mortar. Once well ground,
 one ounce of sal ammoniac and grind it in an iron mortar. Once well ground, take one ounce of sulfur, and
 an iron mortar. Once well ground, take one ounce of sulfur , and grind it separately. When it is well-ground, take
 and grind it separately. When it is well-ground, take the sal ammoniac & grind it together again. Then take one ounce of
 & grind it together again. Then take one ounce of soft tin & one ounce of quicksilver, then melt your tin &
 take one ounce of soft tin & one ounce of quicksilver , then melt your tin & put your quicksilver drop
 soft tin & one ounce of quicksilver, then melt your tin & put your quicksilver drop by drop into your tin
 ounce of quicksilver, then melt your tin & put your quicksilver drop by drop into your tin while melting, & stir
 tin & put your quicksilver drop by drop into your tin while melting, & stir strongly until it is powder. For
 strongly until it is powder. For coating it Take some glue of Partenay or parchment and apply it with the white of one egg, then
 glue of Partenay or parchment and apply it with the white of one egg , then take a little saffron and vinegar and the
 with the white of one egg, then take a little saffron and vinegar and the milk of the fig tree, and
 white of one egg, then take a little saffron and vinegar and the milk of the fig tree, and do another
 egg, then take a little saffron and vinegar and the milk of the fig tree , and do another coat. Then take the bronze and
 the fig tree, and do another coat. Then take the bronze and apply it on top. Varnish Take two ounces of
 coat. Then take the bronze and apply it on top. Varnish Take two ounces of spike lavender oil & one ounce
 and apply it on top. Varnish Take two ounces of spike lavender oil & one ounce of sandarac. Take a clean pot, &
 two ounces of spike lavender oil & one ounce of sandarac . Take a clean pot, & warm it, & then
 then take it from the fire, and next put the drugs inside, and next put them into a vial, & apply
 put them into a vial, & apply it on the wood . Another recipe for making varnish Take one ounce of
 & apply it on the wood. Another recipe for making varnish Take one ounce of verinseVenice turpentine & one quarter ounce
 wood. Another recipe for making varnish Take one ounce of verinseVenice turpentine & one quarter ounce of oil of perolle petrolle &
 one ounce of verinseVenice turpentine & one quarter ounce of oil of perolle petrolle & one ounce of sandarac & one of spike lavender
 ounce of oil of perolle petrolle & one ounce of sandarac & one of spike lavender oil. Color of burnished copper
 perolle petrolle & one ounce of sandarac & one of spike lavender oil. Color of burnished copper Take one ounce of sal ammoniac
 lavender oil. Color of burnished copper Take one ounce of sal ammoniac with one ounce of brouillamini and half of copper filings
 Take one ounce of sal ammoniac with one ounce of brouillamini and half of copper filings with one ounce of sulfur
 sal ammoniac with one ounce of brouillamini and half of copper filings with one ounce of sulfur & a half-septier of vinegar.
 brouillamini and half of copper filings with one ounce of sulfur & a half-septier of vinegar. Push it all into a
 filings with one ounce of sulfur & a half-septier of vinegar . Push it all into a small tile oven and
 all into a small tile oven and make a small charcoal fire around it, and put your pot into the said
 pot into the said oven for the whole day. For bronzing white Take looking-glass tin & put it to soak in
 said oven for the whole day. For bronzing white Take looking-glass tin & put it to soak in gum water & pestle
 white Take looking-glass tin & put it to soak in gum water & pestle it in a mortar. And next, you will
 in a mortar. And next, you will put it on marble . For making vermilion Take two pounds of sulfur, &
 And next, you will put it on marble. For making vermilion Take two pounds of sulfur, & melt it, & put
 it on marble. For making vermilion Take two pounds of sulfur , & melt it, & put it into two pounds
 melt it, & put it into two pounds of merecuse mercury . And if this substance ignites, cover it quite gently,
 then put the whole for some time after into a leaded pot, onto the fire for the space of twenty-four hours.
 fire for the space of twenty-four hours. You will have good vermilion . For making varnish Take one pound of linseed oil,
 of twenty-four hours. You will have good vermilion. For making varnish Take one pound of linseed oil, and then you will
 have good vermilion. For making varnish Take one pound of linseed oil , and then you will put it in a earthen
 linseed oil, and then you will put it in a earthen pot, mixed with a crust of bread and three onions,
 will put it in a earthen pot, mixed with a crust of bread and three onions, and put it on top of a
 earthen pot, mixed with a crust of bread and three onions , and put it on top of a charcoal fire,
 and three onions, and put it on top of a charcoal fire, and you will cook it on a little fire,
 of five hours. You will take half an ounce of flour glue , & you will make it boil just as before
 And then, after, you will put in two ounces of well-pestled sandarac & will do as above. And then after, you will
 will do as above. And then after, you will take mastic & arrabeic, two ounces each, which will both be well ground , and you will put everything together, & will make
 will do as above. And then after, you will take mastic & arrabeic, two ounces each, which will both be well
 as above. And then after, you will take mastic & arrabeic , two ounces each, which will both be well ground,
 the space of five hours. And then you will put d’araucq rock alum , two ounces, & then you will make it boil.
 it boil. And if you add two ounces of l’arable arabic to it, if you see that they are not cooked
 until it is cooked enough. And pour it into a cloth that should be rather tight. And when you have poured
 pour it, you will put a little of the said oil & you will make it better. For making red varnish
 said oil & you will make it better. For making red varnish Take vermilion and make it soak in quite clear gum
 you will make it better. For making red varnish Take vermilion and make it soak in quite clear gum water, like
 making red varnish Take vermilion and make it soak in quite clear gum water , like the other. Make two or three ground layers
 Make two or three ground layers as above. For making yellow varnish Take some gum arabic & soak it tr with water,
 ground layers as above. For making yellow varnish Take some gum arabic & soak it tr with water, then take some well
 varnish Take some gum arabic & soak it tr with water , then take some well beaten saffron, & temper the
 arabic & soak it tr with water, then take some well beaten saffron , & temper the said gum, and make it quite
 then take some well beaten saffron, & temper the said gum , and make it quite clear, then make your ground
 dry as before until it is dry enough. Then take varnish from an apothecary, dash by blows, one quite far from
 your hands quite well & with your palm spread your varnish . Recipe for white gum Take white wax & ceruse
 & with your palm spread your varnish. Recipe for white gum Take white wax & ceruse & a small amount of
 your palm spread your varnish. Recipe for white gum Take white wax & ceruse & a small amount of fine pitch very
 your varnish. Recipe for white gum Take white wax & ceruse & a small amount of fine pitch very well pestled
 Take white wax & ceruse & a small amount of fine pitch very well pestled together, & put it in a small
 it will be melted you will make a spatula of wood of& burnish what you want. Green gum Take green wax
 a spatula of wood of& burnish what you want. Green gum Take green wax with a small amount of verdigris and
 of wood of& burnish what you want. Green gum Take green wax with a small amount of verdigris and make it melt
 Green gum Take green wax with a small amount of verdigris and make it melt as above. Red gum Take red
 amount of verdigris and make it melt as above. Red gum Take red wax, vermillion, & a small amount of resins
 verdigris and make it melt as above. Red gum Take red wax , vermillion, & a small amount of resins resin pitch,
 make it melt as above. Red gum Take red wax, vermillion , & a small amount of resins resin pitch, as
 gum Take red wax, vermillion, & a small amount of resins resin pitch , as above. Bronze of copper Take da some verdet
 & a small amount of resins resin pitch, as above. Bronze of copper Take da some verdet & clear glue, &
 small amount of resins resin pitch, as above. Bronze of copper Take da some verdet & clear glue, & grind it
 resin pitch, as above. Bronze of copper Take da some verdet & clear glue, & grind it together. Then make a
 as above. Bronze of copper Take da some verdet & clear glue , & grind it together. Then make a layer on
 & grind it together. Then make a layer on your wood , and take pin filings, and grind it on marble
 together. Then make a layer on your wood, and take pin filings , and grind it on marble with water, then pour
 your wood, and take pin filings, and grind it on marble with water, then pour it on the wood & polish
 and take pin filings, and grind it on marble with water , then pour it on the wood & polish it
 it on marble with water, then pour it on the wood & polish it with copper. Bronze like tin Take looking-glass
 then pour it on the wood & polish it with copper . Bronze like tin Take looking-glass tin, two ounces of
 pour it on the wood & polish it with copper. Bronze like tin Take looking-glass tin, two ounces of quicksilver, &
 on the wood & polish it with copper. Bronze like tin Take looking-glass tin, two ounces of quicksilver, & melt the
 wood & polish it with copper. Bronze like tin Take looking-glass tin , two ounces of quicksilver, & melt the looking-glass tin
 copper. Bronze like tin Take looking-glass tin, two ounces of quicksilver , & melt the looking-glass tin into a new pot.
 Take looking-glass tin, two ounces of quicksilver, & melt the looking-glass tin into a new pot. And difiant as soon as it
 as soon as it is all melted, put in the quickt aiantsilver , & remove it from the fire, & let the
 & remove it from the fire, & let the said glue dry. Then take a piece of tin & burnish it
 let the said glue dry. Then take a piece of tin & burnish it on marble with clear water, and then
 Then take a piece of tin & burnish it on marble with clear water, and then coat it on the wood,
 a piece of tin & burnish it on marble with clear water , and then coat it on the wood, and polish
 marble with clear water, and then coat it on the wood , and polish it with a piece of tin. For
 on the wood, and polish it with a piece of tin . For making aquafortis Take a half-septier of vinegar with
 and polish it with a piece of tin. For making aquafortis Take a half-septier of vinegar with one ounce of verdigris,
 piece of tin. For making aquafortis Take a half-septier of vinegar with one ounce of verdigris, & one ounce of copperas
 aquafortis Take a half-septier of vinegar with one ounce of verdigris , & one ounce of copperas & one ounce of
 vinegar with one ounce of verdigris, & one ounce of copperas & one ounce of solle, then put them together in
 verdigris, & one ounce of copperas & one ounce of solle , then put them together in a glass vial. Or
 one ounce of solle, then put them together in a glass vial. Or moulu Take fine gold & put it on
 of solle, then put them together in a glass vial. Or moulu Take fine gold & put it on a quite clean
 put them together in a glass vial. Or moulu Take fine gold & put it on a quite clean bu marble &
 fine gold & put it on a quite clean bu marble & put aquafortis & start crushing. Then take saltpeter &
 put it on a quite clean bu marble & put aquafortis & start crushing. Then take saltpeter & sal ammoniac, and
 bu marble & put aquafortis & start crushing. Then take saltpeter & sal ammoniac, and put it into a shell which
 & put aquafortis & start crushing. Then take saltpeter & sal ammoniac , and put it into a shell which should be
 should be large & washed, for safekeeping. For making gray wood One needs to take three half-septiers of iron filings, xviii
 making gray wood One needs to take three half-septiers of iron filings , xviii s deniers'-worth of glass alum, & as much
 take three half-septiers of iron filings, xviii s deniers'-worth of glass alum , & as much green copperas, six deniers'-worth of verdigris,
 filings, xviii s deniers'-worth of glass alum, & as much green copperas , six deniers'-worth of verdigris, am pitch, & a quart
 glass alum, & as much green copperas, six deniers'-worth of verdigris , am pitch, & a quart of cuyr currier's water,
 & as much green copperas, six deniers'-worth of verdigris, am pitch , & a quart of cuyr currier's water, and if
 deniers'-worth of verdigris, am pitch, & a quart of cuyr currier's water , and if you cannot find it, you will put
 and if you cannot find it, you will put more rainwater of small degree. For gilding on wood First one needs
 it, you will put more rainwater of small degree. For gilding on wood First one needs to put down a layer
 will put more rainwater of small degree. For gilding on wood First one needs to put down a layer of very
 wood First one needs to put down a layer of very clear glue , and once dry, you will put down a layer
 and once dry, you will put down a layer of yellow gold . And when it is done, you will take fig
 yellow gold. And when it is done, you will take fig tree wood , & put it to soak some space of time,
 space of time, & wash the places you want to gild , and cut your gold with a knife to the
 wash the places you want to gild, and cut your gold with a knife to the price that you will lay.
 that you will lay. And one must lay the said gold with iecotton. And if you can find a fig tree,
 lay. And one must lay the said gold with ie cotton . And if you can find a fig tree, take
 And if you can find a fig tree, take the the white of one egg & stir it vigorously. If your gold does not have
 white of one egg & stir it vigorously. If your gold does not have beautiful enough color, you will take a
 does not have beautiful enough color, you will take a partridge feather , & make it burn in a chafing-dish, and make
 & make it burn in a chafing-dish, and make the smoke go against what you have gilded. For gilding with or
 chafing-dish, and make the smoke go against what you have gilded . For gilding with or moleu One needs to take
 make the smoke go against what you have gilded. For gilding with or moleu One needs to take a shell of
 smoke go against what you have gilded. For gilding with or moleu One needs to take a shell of gold and, before
 with or moleu One needs to take a shell of gold and, before you want to work with it, you will
 work with it, you will put it to soak with gum water and lay it down with a paintbrush, & polish it
 wolf’s tooth when it is dry. Recipe for putting all woods in color For making it black, one needs to soak
 For making it black, one needs to soak it in olive oil , and similarly for horn, as the case may be,
 needs to soak it in olive oil, and similarly for horn , as the case may be, four or five days,
 space of one hour, & take it out of the oil , and take some natural sulfur or another if you
 & take it out of the oil, and take some natural sulfur or another if you cannot find it, and cover the
 another if you cannot find it, and cover the said wood with this powder, until it is cool, & you will
 take the said powder & put it on the said wood while boiling. For making wood green One needs to take
 put it on the said wood while boiling. For making wood green One needs to take one quart of white vinegar
 making wood green One needs to take one quart of white vinegar & one ounce of green & one ounce of glass
 vinegar & one ounce of green & one ounce of glass alum , all mixed together, and you will put your substances
 mixed together, and you will put your substances into a leaded pot over the fire without taking air, & then put
 without taking air, & then put the pot in a dung heap for fifteen days, and once it is out, you
 your substances for the space of three hours. For making wood red Take one quart of old urine and three ounces
 three hours. For making wood red Take one quart of old urine and three ounces of madder & one ounce of glass
 Take one quart of old urine and three ounces of madder & one ounce of glass alum, and you will put
 urine and three ounces of madder & one ounce of glass alum , and you will put all in your pot, &
 with green. For making it blue Take one quart of urine as above and one ounce of alum & two drams
 one quart of urine as above and one ounce of alum & two drams of sal ammoniac & half an ounce
 above and one ounce of alum & two drams of sal ammoniac & half an ounce of pastel woad flowers, the whole
 two drams of sal ammoniac & half an ounce of pastel woad flowers , the whole made into powder, and do as with
 with green. For making it violet Take one quart of urine & one ounce of alum & two drams of sal
 violet Take one quart of urine & one ounce of alum & two drams of sal ammoniac & one of lake,
 urine & one ounce of alum & two drams of sal ammoniac & one of lake, & do as above. For making
 alum & two drams of sal ammoniac & one of lake , & do as above. For making it yellow Take
 lake, & do as above. For making it yellow Take urine as above and two ounces of guesdre woad & one
 it yellow Take urine as above and two ounces of guesdre woad & one ounce of fustet and two ounces drams of
 and two ounces of guesdre woad & one ounce of fustet and two ounces drams of sal ammoniac, & do as
 & one ounce of fustet and two ounces drams of sal ammoniac , & do as above. For making very beautiful color
 of gold & of little expense First take very yellow orange peel, & clean them well of the white that is inside,
 in a very clean mortar. And take as much of sulfur , & grind all together, and put everything in a
 sulfur, & grind all together, and put everything in a glass vial, & keep them in the cellar or other damp
 you will see a very beautiful color. For making black goumiche Take some glue, & temper it with vinegar, & melt
 a very beautiful color. For making black goumiche Take some glue , & temper it with vinegar, & melt it, and
 making black goumiche Take some glue, & temper it with vinegar , & melt it, and it should be very clear.
 melt it, and it should be very clear. And take lampblack or another black & mix them together, then put it
 another black & mix them together, then put it on wood . For the white One needs to take white wax
 it on wood. For the white One needs to take white wax with ceruse, and melt it all together, & lay it
 For the white One needs to take white wax with ceruse , and melt it all together, & lay it on
 ceruse, and melt it all together, & lay it on wood or another thing. For gilding iron or tin First one
 & lay it on wood or another thing. For gilding iron or tin First one needs to wash that which one
 it on wood or another thing. For gilding iron or tin First one needs to wash that which one wants to
 needs to wash that which one wants to gild in wine lees , and then wash it again with white wine, and
 gild in wine lees, and then wash it again with white wine , and take three ounces terra merita & a chopin
 wash it again with white wine, and take three ounces terra merita & a chopin of white wine, and boil the substances
 and take three ounces terra merita & a chopin of white wine , and boil the substances the space of half an
 half an hour, & put down your colors on your iron or tin, or other, and then let it dry on
 hour, & put down your colors on your iron or tin , or other, and then let it dry on a
 other, and then let it dry on a piece of paper , & not put the hand in your materials. Against
 your materials. Against redness of the face Make a small lead cap & wear it overnight. Excellent secret. Try a lead
 lead cap & wear it overnight. Excellent secret. Try a lead mask. Medicine of the orientals against all maladies Dry rosemary
 lead mask. Medicine of the orientals against all maladies Dry rosemary in the month of May, then fill this bowl with
 in the month of May, then fill this bowl with powder of it, and put a lit charcoal on top. And,
 fill this bowl with powder of it, and put a lit charcoal on top. And, receive the smoke by a quite tightened
 and put a lit charcoal on top. And, receive the smoke by a quite tightened mouth, and a part will come
 also pinch the nose. Against colds, rheums, and other maladies. Fatty earth Founders, to make the handles of their bells, use it.
 &, but rather well chosen & soft. Recipe for making bronze and varnish of many sorts For making excellent varnish with
 rather well chosen & soft. Recipe for making bronze and varnish of many sorts For making excellent varnish with clear water
 making bronze and varnish of many sorts For making excellent varnish with clear water which you will use with a paintbrush
 and varnish of many sorts For making excellent varnish with clear water which you will use with a paintbrush and immediately dry,
 use with a paintbrush and immediately dry, for putting on paper , a tablet, or another piece. First, you will take
 or another piece. First, you will take five ounces of eau-de-vie and one ounce of benzoin pestled between two pieces of
 will take five ounces of eau-de-vie and one ounce of benzoin pestled between two pieces of paper or card or in
 and one ounce of benzoin pestled between two pieces of paper or card or in a mortar, but it should not
 ounce of benzoin pestled between two pieces of paper or card or in a mortar, but it should not be too
 but it should not be too small, then take a glass vial not too big and put into it a half
 namely two & a half ounces. Next take the said benzoin just as coarsely pestled , and put it to use with the said water
 coarsely pestled, and put it to use with the said water and let it rest for the space of one &
 of one & half days, & then take the said water & put it into another glass vial & mix it
 then take the said water & put it into another glass vial & mix it very well. And on the rest
 it very well. And on the rest of the said benzoin that remains at the bottom of the said first vial,
 of the said first vial, put the rest of the water over this, and do as before when you see that
 that the case is going well, and mix the first water with the second. By means of this you will be
 able to use it for something more noble. Another approved varnish Take two ounces of linseed oil & two ounces of
 something more noble. Another approved varnish Take two ounces of linseed oil & two ounces of petrolle oil and two ounces of
 Take two ounces of linseed oil & two ounces of petrolle oil and two ounces of mastic, the whitest you can find,
 & two ounces of petrolle oil and two ounces of mastic , the whitest you can find, and of glass alum,
 ounces of mastic, the whitest you can find, and of glass alum , & grind it, and take a little bit of
 alum, & grind it, and take a little bit of white copperas , and put all these drugs together into an earthen
 a little bit of white copperas, and put all these drugs together into an earthen pot that should be new, and
 white copperas, and put all these drugs together into an earthen pot that should be new, and lay it on hot
 pot that should be new, and lay it on hot ashes for a bit, and you will see a beautiful varnish.
 ashes for a bit, and you will see a beautiful varnish . Another varnish Take petrolle oil & spike lavender oil,
 a bit, and you will see a beautiful varnish. Another varnish Take petrolle oil & spike lavender oil, as much of
 and you will see a beautiful varnish. Another varnish Take petrolle oil & spike lavender oil, as much of one as the
 see a beautiful varnish. Another varnish Take petrolle oil & spike lavender oil , as much of one as the other, & mix
 of one as the other, & mix it together with copperas , & make them melt over hot ashes, according to
 it together with copperas, & make them melt over hot ashes , according to the quantity that you want to make.
 quantity that you want to make. To lay down this varnish , put three coats on the work that you want
 coats on the work that you want to varnish. Another varnish Take one ounce of spike lavender oil & of sang
 you want to varnish. Another varnish Take one ounce of spike lavender oil & of sang de raiye da Rac & make these
 varnish Take one ounce of spike lavender oil & of sang de raiye da Rac & make these drugs melt in a new earthen pot,
 & of sang de raiye da Rac & make these drugs melt in a new earthen pot, & when it will
 da Rac & make these drugs melt in a new earthen pot, & when it will be melted, you will pass
 will be melted, you will pass it in a clean cloth & you will see a beautiful varnish. Another varnish Take
 in a clean cloth & you will see a beautiful varnish . Another varnish Take one ounce of spike lavender oil
 clean cloth & you will see a beautiful varnish. Another varnish Take one ounce of spike lavender oil & heat it
 see a beautiful varnish. Another varnish Take one ounce of spike lavender oil & heat it over charcoals, & then take a half
 one ounce of spike lavender oil & heat it over charcoals , & then take a half ounce of sang dea
 it over charcoals, & then take a half ounce of sang dea Raiec & grind it coarsely, and then put it into the
 & grind it coarsely, and then put it into the spike lavender oil , & then mix it with a stick until you
 that it is melted, and then put it in a glass vial. And when you want to use it, heat it
 to use it, heat it little by little over the charcoals . And before putting it down, put down a coat
 And before putting it down, put down a coat of very clear glue , & then put it down with a paintbrush. For
 & then put it down with a paintbrush. For making red varnish Take vermilion & temper it with gum water as well
 it down with a paintbrush. For making red varnish Take vermilion & temper it with gum water as well as with
 For making red varnish Take vermilion & temper it with gum water as well as with other water, and make it like
 temper it with gum water as well as with other water , and make it like the other varnish, & mix
 as with other water, and make it like the other varnish , & mix this other water like the other varnish,
 make it like the other varnish, & mix this other water like the other varnish, and then lay it down as
 other varnish, & mix this other water like the other varnish , and then lay it down as before for making
 down as before for making three green. For making green trwood Take very strong vinegar, salt, & rainwater, and one needs
 before for making three green. For making green trwood Take very strong vinegar , salt, & rainwater, and one needs to put it
 three green. For making green trwood Take very strong vinegar, salt , & rainwater, and one needs to put it all
 For making green trwood Take very strong vinegar, salt, & rainwater , and one needs to put it all together with
 rainwater, and one needs to put it all together with verdigris , and put it in a new earthen vessel with
 all together with verdigris, and put it in a new earthen vessel with your wood, & put it in some very
 and put it in a new earthen vessel with your wood , & put it in some very warm horse dung
 with your wood, & put it in some very warm horse dung for the space of eight or nine days. For making
 for the space of eight or nine days. For making bronze in the color of steel Take glass alum & antimony,
 days. For making bronze in the color of steel Take glass alum & antimony, but one needs twice as much glass alum
 bronze in the color of steel Take glass alum & antimony , but one needs twice as much glass alum as
 glass alum & antimony, but one needs twice as much glass alum as antimony, and pestle the whole together in an iron
 antimony, but one needs twice as much glass alum as antimony , and pestle the whole together in an iron mortar,
 alum as antimony, and pestle the whole together in an iron mortar, & then mix with gum water while grinding it
 whole together in an iron mortar, & then mix with gum water while grinding it on marble, & then one needs to
 & then mix with gum water while grinding it on marble , & then one needs to use it with a
 with a tooth of a wolf or dog. For making bronze in the color of gold Take copper filings & ocher
 dog. For making bronze in the color of gold Take copper filings & ocher & gum & alum, & grind it all
 bronze in the color of gold Take copper filings & ocher & gum & alum, & grind it all together in
 the color of gold Take copper filings & ocher & gum & alum, & grind it all together in a stone
 of gold Take copper filings & ocher & gum & alum , & grind it all together in a stone mortar,
 gum & alum, & grind it all together in a stone mortar, and when it is well ground, you will lay
 with a tooth of a wolf or dog. For making bone or horn green Take verdigris & temper it with strong
 tooth of a wolf or dog. For making bone or horn green Take verdigris & temper it with strong vinegar, then
 wolf or dog. For making bone or horn green Take verdigris & temper it with strong vinegar, then soak your bone
 bone or horn green Take verdigris & temper it with strong vinegar , then soak your bone or horn an hour, &
 verdigris & temper it with strong vinegar, then soak your bone or horn an hour, & then put it to use.
 temper it with strong vinegar, then soak your bone or horn an hour, & then put it to use. For making
 an hour, & then put it to use. For making bronze Take pin filings & other of latten, & put it
 & then put it to use. For making bronze Take pin filings & other of latten, & put it together, & grind
 use. For making bronze Take pin filings & other of latten , & put it together, & grind it on marble,
 of latten, & put it together, & grind it on marble , grind it well with water little by little, until
 together, & grind it on marble, grind it well with water little by little, until they are distilled, then put them
 you want to use some of it, mix it with very clear glue , & then you will layer it on what you
 before layering it, lay down on it one layer of very clear glue , & let it dry, & rub the said bronze
 clear glue, & let it dry, & rub the said bronze with a tooth of a wolf or dog. Making gray
 with a tooth of a wolf or dog. Making gray wood Take some grais powder, ___ ___ ___, iron filings, ironware,
 of a wolf or dog. Making gray wood Take some grais powder , ___ ___ ___, iron filings, ironware, alum, currier’s’ black,
 Making gray wood Take some grais powder, ___ ___ ___, iron filings , ironware, alum, currier’s’ black, copperas, & glass alum. For
 wood Take some grais powder, ___ ___ ___, iron filings, ironware , alum, currier’s’ black, copperas, & glass alum. For making
 Take some grais powder, ___ ___ ___, iron filings, ironware, alum , currier’s’ black, copperas, & glass alum. For making water
 some grais powder, ___ ___ ___, iron filings, ironware, alum, currier’s’ black , copperas, & glass alum. For making water for disease
 powder, ___ ___ ___, iron filings, ironware, alum, currier’s’ black, copperas , & glass alum. For making water for disease of
 ___ ___, iron filings, ironware, alum, currier’s’ black, copperas, & glass alum . For making water for disease of the eyes Take
 ironware, alum, currier’s’ black, copperas, & glass alum. For making water for disease of the eyes Take white copperas, & heat it a little on the
 alum. For making water for disease of the eyes Take white copperas , & heat it a little on the fire, then
 powder on a white cloth stretched over a very clean glass , & the powder on top, then take fountain water
 very clean glass, & the powder on top, then take fountain water & pass it through the said cloth, while stirring the
 you will find yourself very well from it. For making bronze in the color of gold Take six ounces of calcined
 bronze in the color of gold Take six ounces of calcined tin & as much of natural sulfur & six ounces of
 Take six ounces of calcined tin & as much of natural sulfur & six ounces of sal ammoniac, and put the tin
 & as much of natural sulfur & six ounces of sal ammoniac , and put the tin to melt in a spoon.
 sulfur & six ounces of sal ammoniac, and put the tin to melt in a spoon. When it is melted, put
 melt in a spoon. When it is melted, put in quicksilver , and cast it in a line, then pestle all
 and cast it in a line, then pestle all these drugs together in a mortar, & and put it into an
 together in a mortar, & and put it into an earthen pot, & it should have many hot ashes underneath, &
 into an earthen pot, & it should have many hot ashes underneath, & little by little you will make the fire
 do not harm you for they are bad. For making varnish Take some mastic, sang daRage darac, gum arabic & spike
 you for they are bad. For making varnish Take some mastic , sang daRage darac, gum arabic & spike lavender oil,
 for they are bad. For making varnish Take some mastic, sang daRage darac , gum arabic & spike lavender oil, as much of
 bad. For making varnish Take some mastic, sang daRage darac, gum arabic & spike lavender oil, as much of one as the
 varnish Take some mastic, sang daRage darac, gum arabic & spike lavender oil , as much of one as the other, & make
 all together, & before coating it, lay a coat of glue quite clear , & let it dry. Antidote against the fumes of
 fumes of metals In the morning, take a piece of toast with butter , & neither antimony nor any other vapor will be
 morning, take a piece of toast with butter, & neither antimony nor any other vapor will be able to harm you.
 a piece of toast with butter, & neither antimony nor any other vapor will be able to harm you. Or put half a
 will be able to harm you. Or put half a pig’s bladder in front of the face. Tin for casting They use
 put half a pig’s bladder in front of the face. Tin for casting They use common tin, which is the one
 in front of the face. Tin for casting They use common tin , which is the one that pewterers use to make
 which is composed of 9 or ten ten lb of fine lead for one quintal of tin. Some find that there is
 ten ten lb of fine lead for one quintal of tin . Some find that there is nothing better than fine
 of tin. Some find that there is nothing better than fine tin . Mixture for printers Make a layer of pulverized antimony,
 than fine tin. Mixture for printers Make a layer of pulverized antimony , & a layer of latten & old scrapings or
 Make a layer of pulverized antimony, & a layer of latten & old scrapings or thin plates of iron or clo
 layer of pulverized antimony, & a layer of latten & old scrapings or thin plates of iron or clo iron nail heads, and continue in this way
 & old scrapings or thin plates of iron or clo iron nail heads , and continue in this way until the crucible is
 inside a four à vent, & then mix a little tin & fill up the crucible with lead until it causes
 mix a little tin & fill up the crucible with lead until it causes it. And increase the fire & mix
 is harder. Petard They make them of fine substance & fine copper , which is capable of fifty lb of powder, in
 & fine copper, which is capable of fifty lb of powder , in the shape of a reinforced firkin, and having
 pointing up, which makes a large breach. Very hard white stucco White wax, Venice turpentine, eggshell, & ceruse. Fountains If you
 up, which makes a large breach. Very hard white stucco White wax , Venice turpentine, eggshell, & ceruse. Fountains If you wish
 makes a large breach. Very hard white stucco White wax, Venice turpentine , eggshell, & ceruse. Fountains If you wish to make
 large breach. Very hard white stucco White wax, Venice turpentine, eggshell , & ceruse. Fountains If you wish to make water
 Very hard white stucco White wax, Venice turpentine, eggshell, & ceruse . Fountains If you wish to make water rise higher
 turpentine, eggshell, & ceruse. Fountains If you wish to make water rise higher than its source, make a pipe descend as
 to B in order to give it push to the water , then from B to C make the pipe ascend
 fountain which you can fit into some rock, pulling the water with which it is filled by the tip marked E,
 not descend as far down. Founders of small works of tin They usually cast with solder, even the things that should
 Founders of small works of tin They usually cast with solder , even the things that should not come out empty,
 that should not come out empty, for the latter require fine & soft tin , which however would not release, & would not come
 come out empty if it was mixed or had some looking-glass tin mix in it, just like they put in a little
 just like they put in a little of it in soft tin . They engrave their works on stones of which are
 of it in soft tin. They engrave their works on stones of which are made the sharpening stones or files of barbers , which are found in great flakes near the mountains,
 reddish, which is not
 the fire & as,one dard of the color of dark slate , the other whitish. When they have some relief, first
 When they have some relief, first they imprint it on carton , as thick as one finger, to serve as a
 a pattern, then with a little compass & little matching iron fittings , they engrave their figures, having first flattened their stones
 iron fittings, they engrave their figures, having first flattened their stones & worn down one against the other, they make their
 a circle or a square which joins perfectly, because the stones render themselves even. Before casting, they rub the mold with
 render themselves even. Before casting, they rub the mold with tallow , which has quickly absorbed it because it is hot.
 has quickly absorbed it because it is hot. Then, taking fine powder of quicklime in a linen, they pounce the mold while beating with
 is hot. Then, taking fine powder of quicklime in a linen , they pounce the mold while beating with the linen
 a linen, they pounce the mold while beating with the linen on top, then blow a little on top to prevent
 pierced in any place, they drive in a bit of cork at this place in the mold. And the lead or
 of cork at this place in the mold. And the lead or tin will not attach to it. Make sure the
 at this place in the mold. And the lead or tin will not attach to it. Make sure the pegs of
 & the table is quite even. Try to etch with distilled vinegar . Try calcined oyster shells. They are said to be
 is quite even. Try to etch with distilled vinegar. Try calcined oyster shells . They are said to be excellent for molding. Sand
 oyster shells. They are said to be excellent for molding. Sand One can find an excellent one on the little hill
 on the little hill of Puy David near Thoulouse for lead , tin & copper. It does not want to be
 the little hill of Puy David near Thoulouse for lead, tin & copper. It does not want to be too much
 hill of Puy David near Thoulouse for lead, tin & copper . It does not want to be too much reheated
 loses its bond & burns at the first arrival of metal , which makes the work lumpy & not neat. It
 better to reheat from a distance, rather than with a straw flame, which generates des some filth. Before filling in the
 rather than with a straw flame, which generates des some filth . Before filling in the frame, you can put in
 filth. Before filling in the frame, you can put in the finest sand you have in a very fine linen, & dry pounce the medal
 in the finest sand you have in a very fine linen , & dry pounce the medal and then the moistened
 fine linen, & dry pounce the medal and then the moistened sand that you put on top, which has more body, will
 put on top, which has more body, will grip it. Tallow makes it porous. Fixed mercury mixed in when one wants
 has more body, will grip it. Tallow makes it porous. Fixed mercury mixed in when one wants to cast, makes metal lead
 mercury mixed in when one wants to cast, makes metal lead run. But if it is pure, one ought to cast
 to cast very hot so that it runs. And vents. Earth for molding Tanner’s earth, or the one with which potters
 hot so that it runs. And vents. Earth for molding Tanner’s earth, or the one with which potters make a whitening on pots to make lead run better on them & to prevent
 with which potters make a whitening on pots to make lead run better on them & to prevent the lead from
 make lead run better on them & to prevent the lead from being absorbed into them, is very good for molding
 things you want make in relief. It releases better than plaster or sulfur which become hard once they have set. For
 want make in relief. It releases better than plaster or sulfur which become hard once they have set. For the earth
 sulfur which become hard once they have set. For the earth being ready, one ought to beat it hard so that
 that it be over a closed fire. One finds this earth at Fosseret & in another place called Ox. Plaster It
 this earth at Fosseret & in another place called Ox. Plaster It is necessary that it be well cooked, which you
 cooked, which you will recognize when cooking it in an iron or metal pot, you mix it with an iron rod,
 you will recognize when cooking it in an iron or metal pot, you mix it with an iron rod, & if
 an iron or metal pot, you mix it with an iron rod, & if it attaches to the iron, it is
 with an iron rod, & if it attaches to the iron , it is not cooked enough, if not, it is
 is not cooked enough, if not, it is good. The water with which you temper it should be a little warm
 a little warm & the mold made with the aforesaid earth also a little hot. The work of plaster does not
 the aforesaid earth also a little hot. The work of plaster does not last & the faces & delicate things break
 things break if one does not give a coat of glue . Carton One ought to take paper from Florence, which
 break if one does not give a coat of glue. Carton One ought to take paper from Florence, which is the
 give a coat of glue. Carton One ought to take paper from Florence , which is the finest, & pestle it & soak
 pestle it & soak it several times & change the water every day, so that it does not smell bad, &
 you have molded it in the hollow form, put a linen over it, & from the back, rub the back of
 it, & from the back, rub the back of the paper with a tooth, as if you wanted to burnish it,
 to burnish it, and it will mold very neatly. Then glue the cloth on the back with strong glue. Sand Only
 it, and it will mold very neatly. Then glue the cloth on the back with strong glue. Sand Only brick, very
 very neatly. Then glue the cloth on the back with strong glue . Sand Only brick, very finely sifted, & worn down
 Then glue the cloth on the back with strong glue. Sand Only brick, very finely sifted, & worn down one against
 the cloth on the back with strong glue. Sand Only brick , very finely sifted, & worn down one against another,
 down one against another, is good for all castings of lead and copper, mixed with urine. This needs to be of
 against another, is good for all castings of lead and copper , mixed with urine. This needs to be of that
 good for all castings of lead and copper, mixed with urine . This needs to be of that whitish brick. Making
 copper, mixed with urine. This needs to be of that whitish brick . Making copper and latten run Put in at the
 urine. This needs to be of that whitish brick. Making copper and latten run Put in at the end, when it
 needs to be of that whitish brick. Making copper and latten run Put in at the end, when it is very
 it is very hot & when you want to cast, sal ammoniac & saltpeter, which removes filth & heats it. Mix some
 hot & when you want to cast, sal ammoniac & saltpeter , which removes filth & heats it. Mix some ardides
 you want to cast, sal ammoniac & saltpeter, which removes filth & heats it. Mix some ardides with the latten. Guard
 & saltpeter, which removes filth & heats it. Mix some ardides with the latten. Guard against the metal touching the iron
 removes filth & heats it. Mix some ardides with the latten . Guard against the metal touching the iron or the
 it. Mix some ardides with the latten. Guard against the metal touching the iron or the latten of the frame, but
 ardides with the latten. Guard against the metal touching the iron or the latten of the frame, but cover it with
 latten. Guard against the metal touching the iron or the latten of the frame, but cover it with sand or lute.
 or the latten of the frame, but cover it with sand or lute. Do the casting very evenly. Sand Calcined black
 latten of the frame, but cover it with sand or lute . Do the casting very evenly. Sand Calcined black pebbles
 it with sand or lute. Do the casting very evenly. Sand Calcined black pebbles from the river are good for lead,
 with sand or lute. Do the casting very evenly. Sand Calcined black pebbles from the river are good for lead, but they dullen metal. There is
 Sand Calcined black pebbles from the river are good for lead , but they dullen metal. There is only clay earth
 from the river are good for lead, but they dullen metal . There is only clay earth with which one makes
 good for lead, but they dullen metal. There is only clay earth with which one makes tiles , reheated & reddened & passed through a sleeve finely
 & reddened & passed through a sleeve finely mixed with glair . Willow charcoal is excellent for sand for b lead.
 reddened & passed through a sleeve finely mixed with glair. Willow charcoal is excellent for sand for b lead. Latten runs better.
 sleeve finely mixed with glair. Willow charcoal is excellent for sand for b lead . Latten runs better. Frame casting It is good to
 with glair. Willow charcoal is excellent for sand for b lead . Latten runs better. Frame casting It is good to
 glair. Willow charcoal is excellent for sand for b lead. Latten runs better. Frame casting It is good to make it
 better. Frame casting It is good to make it with boxwood . Turn it in order to make it even, as
 make it even, as this is important for the casting. Lute also, or cover the mouth of the frame with sand
 Lute also, or cover the mouth of the frame with sand in order that the melted metal, or lead, or copper
 of the frame with sand in order that the melted metal , or lead, or copper does not touch the frame’s
 frame with sand in order that the melted metal, or lead , or copper does not touch the frame’s iron or
 sand in order that the melted metal, or lead, or copper does not touch the frame’s iron or latten, because it
 metal, or lead, or copper does not touch the frame’s iron or latten, because it makes it brittle, & makes it
 lead, or copper does not touch the frame’s iron or latten , because it makes it brittle, & makes it porous.
 tap the frame, in order that the substance spreads better. Black lead of saulmon from the first melting makes a very neat one. Heat
 the first melting makes a very neat one. Heat of copper It is hot enough when you see it neat &
 when you see it neat & even on top, without filth . Frame Iron & copper make it porous if the
 see it neat & even on top, without filth. Frame Iron & copper make it porous if the metal touches it,
 neat & even on top, without filth. Frame Iron & copper make it porous if the metal touches it, & the
 filth. Frame Iron & copper make it porous if the metal touches it, & the wood warps. Thus, make a mold
 make it porous if the metal touches it, & the wood warps. Thus, make a mold of wood, & have frames
 it, & the wood warps. Thus, make a mold of wood , & have frames of bricks made inside this mold
 Thus, make a mold of wood, & have frames of bricks made inside this mold of whatever thickness that you want.
 made inside this mold of whatever thickness that you want. Glair of eggs Glair of eggs gives strength to sand to make several
 mold of whatever thickness that you want. Glair of eggs Glair of eggs gives strength to sand to make several casts. Clockmakers To
 want. Glair of eggs Glair of eggs gives strength to sand to make several casts. Clockmakers To divide the teeth of
 But they make a platform (as they call it) of latten fais divided into several circles, & each circle is divided
 the past, they tempered their springs by dipping them into molten lead . But today they temper their springs straight, & bend
 them once tempered, which is a pa beautiful secret. Casting lead in lead There are some who make their hollow forms
 tempered, which is a pa beautiful secret. Casting lead in lead There are some who make their hollow forms with thick
 There are some who make their hollow forms with thick lead , then cast lead in them. Lead when not cast
 who make their hollow forms with thick lead, then cast lead in them. Lead when not cast hot enough, is white,
 hollow forms with thick lead, then cast lead in them. Lead when not cast hot enough, is white, & blacker when
 & blacker when cast well hot. One can make a lead mold, & to cast in it, smoke it with candle
 can make a lead mold, & to cast in it, smoke it with candle black. But it is never that neat.
 lead mold, & to cast in it, smoke it with candle black . But it is never that neat. Never does lead
 candle black. But it is never that neat. Never does lead come so neat as tin. Sand If it is too
 never that neat. Never does lead come so neat as tin . Sand If it is too fatty, one ought to
 reheat it and sieve it again. Method of casting in bronze Latten of potin cor, which is the most brittle, molds
 it and sieve it again. Method of casting in bronze Latten of potin cor, which is the most brittle, molds more neatly, according
 more neatly, according to the opinion of many people, than fine latten of pots , just like all fine latten molds neater than red
 many people, than fine latten of pots, just like all fine latten molds neater than red copper. If you want to cast
 of pots, just like all fine latten molds neater than red copper . If you want to cast something fine & thin,
 You will recognize that it is hot enough when it smokes a lot and while stirring it throws sparks. To heat
 that the crucible risks more danger breaking, but you can lute it as you know founders do. And also, one ought
 know founders do. And also, one ought to maintain the charcoal between the bellows & the crucible. Also take heed to
 well at the bottom, stir it, once melted, with a wood stick, for iron only makes it brittle. Turn. Some put
 bottom, stir it, once melted, with a wood stick, for iron only makes it brittle. Turn. Some put wool stuffing in
 stick, for iron only makes it brittle. Turn. Some put wool stuffing in order to heat it & make it run. Put
 & make it run. Put under your crucible a thick iron slab, which will redden & will maintain the heat under
 redden & will maintain the heat under your crucible. The copper substance is found to be good for casting, when once
 for it demonstrates that it is soft. It is half fine latten & half red copper. This long grain is called long
 it is soft. It is half fine latten & half red copper . This long grain is called long stalk. Sand for
 half red copper. This long grain is called long stalk. Sand for lead ℞ grey soot from the furnace of the silversmiths, quick
 copper. This long grain is called long stalk. Sand for lead ℞ grey soot from the furnace of the silversmiths, quick
 long grain is called long stalk. Sand for lead ℞ grey soot from the furnace of the silversmiths , quick lime, and flour, ana, moistened according to the
 lead ℞ grey soot from the furnace of the silversmiths, quick lime , and flour, ana, moistened according to the art, being
 soot from the furnace of the silversmiths, quick lime, and flour , ana, moistened according to the art, being the finest
 moistened according to the art, being the finest possible. The grey soot of locksmiths , which is held in the forge, is very fine
 fine once ground, molds very neatly, & releases very well. Sand for copper medals ℞ hat felt burnt on a covered fire, dross of
 ground, molds very neatly, & releases very well. Sand for copper medals ℞ hat felt burnt on a covered fire, dross
 neatly, & releases very well. Sand for copper medals ℞ hat felt burnt on a covered fire, dross of iron, & burnt bone,
 copper medals ℞ hat felt burnt on a covered fire, dross of iron , & burnt bone, all of which ground very finely
 felt burnt on a covered fire, dross of iron, & burnt bone , all of which ground very finely & pestled &
 of which ground very finely & pestled & watered with saltwater ; & make a paste of it & mold it,
 of it & mold it, & wipe it over a straw fire. These three sands, pulverized and very finely ground on
 it, & wipe it over a straw fire. These three sands , pulverized and very finely ground on porphyry, mold well,
 fire. These three sands, pulverized and very finely ground on porphyry , mold well, and I think that separately each of
 I think that separately each of them is very good. Burnt hat felt molds very neatly and releases very neatly. Plaster molds very
 Burnt hat felt molds very neatly and releases very neatly. Plaster molds very neatly but it becomes porous. Bone has scarcely
 very neatly. Plaster molds very neatly but it becomes porous. Bone has scarcely any body unless it has iron dross. Felt
 becomes porous. Bone has scarcely any body unless it has iron dross . Felt makes it release. Another sand Charcoal of vine
 Bone has scarcely any body unless it has iron dross. Felt makes it release. Another sand Charcoal of vine shoots &
 unless it has iron dross. Felt makes it release. Another sand Charcoal of vine shoots & clay earth, well cooked &
 it has iron dross. Felt makes it release. Another sand Charcoal of vine shoots & clay earth, well cooked & well sieved, as much
 makes it release. Another sand Charcoal of vine shoots & clay earth , well cooked & well sieved, as much of one
 of one as the other, & join them together with well beaten glair of eggs , then calcine in the furnace, & to use it,
 in the furnace, & to use it, temper it with vinegar . Another for lead ℞ finely pestled slate & calcined
 & to use it, temper it with vinegar. Another for lead ℞ finely pestled slate & calcined pumice stone, mixed together.
 use it, temper it with vinegar. Another for lead ℞ finely pestled slate & calcined pumice stone, mixed together. Calcine them in a
 with vinegar. Another for lead ℞ finely pestled slate & calcined pumice stone , mixed together. Calcine them in a well covered pot,
 over a good fire, & each time temper them with varnish . Another ℞ p a little-cooked tile, ground & tempered
 each time temper them with varnish. Another ℞ p a little-cooked tile, ground & tempered in white wine with burnt black tracing paper,
 Another ℞ p a little-cooked tile, ground & tempered in white wine with burnt black tracing paper, & if you add burnt
 a little-cooked tile, ground & tempered in white wine with burnt black tracing paper , & if you add burnt horse dung, it will
 wine with burnt black tracing paper, & if you add burnt horse dung , it will be all the better. Moisten with glair
 horse dung, it will be all the better. Moisten with glair of egg . Tracing paper burnt over a closed fire is reduced
 will be all the better. Moisten with glair of egg. Tracing paper burnt over a closed fire is reduced just as charcoal &
 paper burnt over a closed fire is reduced just as charcoal & very soft black, molds neatly & makes it release
 neatly & makes it release well mixed with the others. Excellent sand Alabaster calcined in a crucible over charcoal fire, so that,
 makes it release well mixed with the others. Excellent sand Alabaster calcined in a crucible over charcoal fire, so that, touching it,
 the others. Excellent sand Alabaster calcined in a crucible over charcoal fire, so that, touching it, it turns into powder. Once
 it as if impalpable. And d with one lb of alabaster , one needs one ℥ of sal ammoniac. Mix well
 with one lb of alabaster, one needs one ℥ of sal ammoniac . Mix well & incorporate everything together, then put them
 next dry the mold in the fire, & cast whichever metal you wish, while the sand is hot; & you will
 the fire, & cast whichever metal you wish, while the sand is hot; & you will cast as neatly as the
 you will cast as neatly as the principal, & the sand can still be used by placing it in a damp
 it in the fire. A way for molding excellently with water Dissolve in damp place some sandiver, and then place this
 for molding excellently with water Dissolve in damp place some sandiver , and then place this water on what you want
 Dissolve in damp place some sandiver, and then place this water on what you want to mold, having encircled it, and
 encircled it, and place it to coagulate on the hot ashes . Do the same with vitriol & copperas, which, once
 to coagulate on the hot ashes. Do the same with vitriol & copperas, which, once well calcined, reduce in water. Molding
 on the hot ashes. Do the same with vitriol & copperas , which, once well calcined, reduce in water. Molding in
 with vitriol & copperas, which, once well calcined, reduce in water . Molding in relief on one part and hollow on
 the other It is necessary to cast two pieces of copper , latten or similar metal, very neatly, and then when
 other It is necessary to cast two pieces of copper, latten or similar metal, very neatly, and then when you have
 necessary to cast two pieces of copper, latten or similar metal , very neatly, and then when you have molded the
 then when you have molded the hollow form in the sand , leave the figure of metal that you s have
 the hollow form in the sand, leave the figure of metal that you s have molded in the frame, without moving
 of the medal, & there, where the force is, the filth & grime accumulate. And, in this way, if you were
 medal, & there, where the force is, the filth & grime accumulate. And, in this way, if you were mold the
 if you were mold the face toward the cast, some grime could be found there, & it is better that is
 is found on the clothing, which is easier to repair. Vinegar is better for moistening than wine. It is necessary that
 is easier to repair. Vinegar is better for moistening than wine . It is necessary that the frame be quite smooth
 tightens evenly, & more than your hands, and makes the coarse sand , which is damp, communicate its humidity to the soft
 coarse sand, which is damp, communicate its humidity to the soft & fine sand , which is sprinkled & pounced dry on the medal.
 shifting. But, at first, pounce your medal with very fine willow charcoal , & se next clean it, for this degreases it,
 molding because this will shake loose the frame & the sand . Bellows To melt with bellows, & hasten your melt,
 near the foot of the furnace, for fear that some charcoal might you enter it, put them almost under the grate.
 the beginning you will blow gently. Impromptu mask Mold some paper & put it on the face of somebody who is
 as you wish, because it renders itself as hard as marble , & you can polish it, & the mold cannot
 than and releases better, than when it is so fine. Eau magistra Dissolve rock salt or salt finely pulverized sandiver & put
 better, than when it is so fine. Eau magistra Dissolve rock salt or salt finely pulverized sandiver & put on marble in
 it is so fine. Eau magistra Dissolve rock salt or salt finely pulverized sandiver & put on marble in a cellar,
 fine. Eau magistra Dissolve rock salt or salt finely pulverized sandiver & put on marble in a cellar, & it will
 rock salt or salt finely pulverized sandiver & put on marble in a cellar, & it will dry out by reheating
 bond to withstand several castings. Try to moisten it with tartar oil . Flour Ground during Advent, keeps for the whole year.
 withstand several castings. Try to moisten it with tartar oil. Flour Ground during Advent, keeps for the whole year. Sand from
 oil. Flour Ground during Advent, keeps for the whole year. Sand from a mine in Thoulouse The sand from Thoulouse, which is taken, from the depths
 the whole year. Sand from a mine in Thoulouse The sand from Thoulouse , which is taken, from the depths of the earth,
 to make it withstand several castings, I mix it with pulverized sandiver & moistened, which hardens it, & takes body & bond
 as many castings as you wish. Try to moisten the pestled glass and other e sands with the waters of the aforesaid
 wish. Try to moisten the pestled glass and other e sands with the waters of the aforesaid salts. It wants to
 moisten the pestled glass and other e sands with the waters of the aforesaid salts . It wants to be, like all natural sand, well
 of the aforesaid salts. It wants to be, like all natural sand , well reheated before putting it to use. One pulverizes
 it is in lumps, then one reheats it in a copper kettle or similar thing, untill it no longer smokes It
 a copper kettle or similar thing, untill it no longer smokes It is necessary to reheat it before using it. It
 a lot, one ought to refresh it with new sand. Sand I tried the bone of oxen feet, thoroughly burned &
 to refresh it with new sand. Sand I tried the bone of oxen feet, thoroughly burned & pulverized & ground on porphyry, until it is not felt between
 of oxen feet, thoroughly burned & pulverized & ground on porphyry , until it is not felt between your fingers. It
 lean, it wants to be well moistened & dampened with wine boiled with elm root . Iron dross, well burned bone of oxen feet, felt
 well moistened & dampened with wine boiled with elm root. Iron dross , well burned bone of oxen feet, felt also well
 & dampened with wine boiled with elm root. Iron dross, well burned bone of oxen feet , felt also well burned over a closed fire, and
 elm root. Iron dross, well burned bone of oxen feet, felt also well burned over a closed fire, and all three very well ground
 a closed fire, and all three very well ground on porphyry mold very neatly in lead, without needing to be reheated
 three very well ground on porphyry mold very neatly in lead , without needing to be reheated a lot, & casting
 lot, & casting le in a hot or cold frame. Felt alone molds very neatly once moistened & releases well, and
 releases well, and also makes the other two release. These sands only withstand one casting. A fatty sand which is rendered
 other two release. These sands only withstand one casting. A fatty sand which is rendered very smooth, makes it porous. A fatty
 sand which is rendered very smooth, makes it porous. A fatty metal needs lean sand. Eau Magistra Some people think that salt
 rendered very smooth, makes it porous. A fatty metal needs lean sand . Eau Magistra Some people think that salt water is
 smooth, makes it porous. A fatty metal needs lean sand. Eau Magistra Some people think that salt water is not good, because
 metal needs lean sand. Eau Magistra Some people think that salt water is not good, because the salt cracks in fire, &
 people think that salt water is not good, because the salt cracks in fire, & consequently should make it porous. There
 & consequently should make it porous. There is only the wine boiled with elm root . Charcoal for pouncing makes for a good release, but
 porous. There is only the wine boiled with elm root. Charcoal for pouncing makes for a good release, but one finds that the
 pouncing makes for a good release, but one finds that the one of willow makes it porous. The one of oak or beech does
 one finds that the one of willow makes it porous. The one of oak or beech does make it porous well without making it porous. Try
 does make it porous well without making it porous. Try burnt oysters . Lead For casting, there is only soft lead that
 it porous well without making it porous. Try burnt oysters. Lead For casting, there is only soft lead that wants to
 porous. Try burnt oysters. Lead For casting, there is only soft lead that wants to be cast very g hot, and soft
 lead that wants to be cast very g hot, and soft tin . Sand for lead, the most excellent of all, for
 wants to be cast very g hot, and soft tin. Sand for lead , the most excellent of all, for high and low
 be cast very g hot, and soft tin. Sand for lead , the most excellent of all, for high and low
 excellent of all, for high and low reliefs I took ceruse and crushed it dry on porphyry to make it very
 low reliefs I took ceruse and crushed it dry on porphyry to make it very fine, then I moistened so much
 make it very fine, then I moistened so much with well-beaten glair of egg that it was like a paste, smoothing it perfectly with
 to reduce it to powder & to mold it with sand , broken up with my fingers & the sharp edge
 my fingers & the sharp edge of a knife. I oiled my medal, because oil cleans it without spoiling it. And
 sharp edge of a knife. I oiled my medal, because oil cleans it without spoiling it. And And having dried it
 And And having dried it & cleaned it with a linen cloth & very small hog bristle brushes, I once again
 & cleaned it with a linen cloth & very small hog bristle brushes, I once again lightly anointed it with clear walnut
 hog bristle brushes, I once again lightly anointed it with clear walnut oil & gently passed a linen cloth over it so that
 anointed it with clear walnut oil & gently passed a linen cloth over it so that it does not remain too
 means, it would come out better in release, because the ceruse , once moistened with water of glair of egg, would
 out better in release, because the ceruse, once moistened with water of glair of egg , would not attach to the oil. This worked very
 water of glair of egg, would not attach to the oil . This worked very well and I molded a medal
 very neatly, without any sticking, which a lot of good sands , such as felt, burnt bone & iron dross, had
 any sticking, which a lot of good sands, such as felt , burnt bone & iron dross, had failed to do
 sticking, which a lot of good sands, such as felt, burnt bone & iron dross, had failed to do on the first
 lot of good sands, such as felt, burnt bone & iron dross , had failed to do on the first try. I
 try. I reheated it & my mold became hard like marble , and by this I knew that sands for molding
 became hard like marble, and by this I knew that sands for molding high relief should be well moistened with some
 for molding high relief should be well moistened with some water , which gives them body & compactness, such as glair,
 some water, which gives them body & compactness, such as glair , gummed water, ea wine boiled with elm root, &c;
 water, which gives them body & compactness, such as glair, gummed water , ea wine boiled with elm root, &c; and lightly
 them body & compactness, such as glair, gummed water, ea wine boiled with elm root , &c; and lightly oil the medal, it withstands as
 water, ea wine boiled with elm root, &c; and lightly oil the medal, it withstands as many castings as you wish,
 castings as you wish, for it is as hard as glass . But even soft lead & brittle tin v want
 wish, for it is as hard as glass. But even soft lead & brittle tin v want to be cast very hot.
 is as hard as glass. But even soft lead & brittle tin v want to be cast very hot. Since then I
 cast very hot. Since then I have realized that this sand , even though it is excellent & endures many castings
 very neatly, nevertheless is fatty and makes things porous. Thus, soft lead and the does not come out so well. But try
 out so well. But try to mix it with a lean sand , such as pumice, scales & similar things to give
 try to mix it with a lean sand, such as pumice , scales & similar things to give them body &
 to mix it with a lean sand, such as pumice, scales & similar things to give them body & so that
 give them body & so that they release better. For lean sands barely release well and yet they receive metal well. Try
 For lean sands barely release well and yet they receive metal well. Try to mix ceruse or minium with other sands.
 well and yet they receive metal well. Try to mix ceruse or minium with other sands. X Oil & anoint with
 yet they receive metal well. Try to mix ceruse or minium with other sands. X Oil & anoint with aspic oil,
 metal well. Try to mix ceruse or minium with other sands . X Oil & anoint with aspic oil, which will
 Try to mix ceruse or minium with other sands. X Oil & anoint with aspic oil, which will go away when
 or minium with other sands. X Oil & anoint with aspic oil , which will go away when reheating, for the oil
 aspic oil, which will go away when reheating, for the oil makes it porous. One ought to moisten with glair, then
 the oil makes it porous. One ought to moisten with glair , then mix it well. And once in the frame,
 at once, for the mixture that is made of several sands with that of the mine, with which you fill the
 for the mixture that is made of several sands with that of the mine , with which you fill the frame, corrupts it. Green
 the mine, with which you fill the frame, corrupts it. Green varnish for medals of copper Having cast them very neatly, cover
 fill the frame, corrupts it. Green varnish for medals of copper Having cast them very neatly, cover them with sel de
 of copper Having cast them very neatly, cover them with sel de verre that we use for sand & moisten it, & in
 cover them with sel de verre that we use for sand & moisten it, & in three or 4 days it
 in three or 4 days it will be green. Next, oil them & keep them under the dung. Glue The Flemish
 be green. Next, oil them & keep them under the dung . Glue The Flemish reglue their earthen pots with gold
 green. Next, oil them & keep them under the dung. Glue The Flemish reglue their earthen pots with gold color, that
 keep them under the dung. Glue The Flemish reglue their earthen pots with gold color, that is to say minium, massicot
 their earthen pots with gold color, that is to say minium , massicot & varnish. Founder They mix beaten glair of
 earthen pots with gold color, that is to say minium, massicot & varnish. Founder They mix beaten glair of egg with
 with gold color, that is to say minium, massicot & varnish . Founder They mix beaten glair of egg with earth
 is to say minium, massicot & varnish. Founder They mix beaten glair of egg with earth with which they make the first layer of
 & varnish. Founder They mix beaten glair of egg with earth with which they make the first layer of the cope
 & bells, & all other pieces, saying that the said glair makes it come out d neatly, & lays down &
 & settles the substance. En noyau for a small work, glair is also good. Rosette, to come out neatly, wants the
 En noyau for a small work, glair is also good. Rosette , to come out neatly, wants the mold to be
 neatly, wants the mold to be a little hot, & lead which has also been mixed with the rosette, especially for
 hot, & lead which has also been mixed with the rosette , especially for small pieces. Mortars It is necessary that
 that they be of the finest substance possible, such as copper for cauldrons , which is better than rosette, in order that it
 possible, such as copper for cauldrons, which is better than rosette , in order that it withstands the blow better. Also
 & less in danger of breaking if they are of fine copper . And for a private home, they do not ring
 & do not carry as much noise as those of metal . It is true that those that are of metal
 of metal. It is true that those that are of metal have more of a ring for the apothecaries. Grenades must
 of a ring for the apothecaries. Grenades must be of fine metal . Sand from the mine It wants to be well
 ring for the apothecaries. Grenades must be of fine metal. Sand from the mine It wants to be well reheated for great metals. Some
 from the mine It wants to be well reheated for great metals . Some burn it in the furnace until it is
 until it is very black and grind it finely on porphyry . Others burn it with aspalte, but when it is
 and grind it finely on porphyry. Others burn it with aspalte , but when it is too burnt, it does not
 and is too lean. You can give it body with tripoli or burnt felt. Experimented sands I have experimented with sand
 too lean. You can give it body with tripoli or burnt felt . Experimented sands I have experimented with sand from Thoulouse,
 You can give it body with tripoli or burnt felt. Experimented sands I have experimented with sand from Thoulouse, & after reheating
 tripoli or burnt felt. Experimented sands I have experimented with sand from Thoulouse , & after reheating it well twice, in a skillet,
 the apothecaries’ double, without finely grinding it further on the porphyry , as I have done previously. I moistened it with
 porphyry, as I have done previously. I moistened it with wine boiled with elm root and molded with it a large piece of a portrait
 a coin of forty sous. I cast very hot X Sand from the mine , well chosen & well reheated, is the most excellent
 without looking for any other mixtures, because it receives all metals . It does not want to be used hot, because
 because it does have enough body to sustain. with the material of a skillet mixed with a knob that is potin. And before that,
 material of a skillet mixed with a knob that is potin . And before that, I had so reheated my molded
 now with the flame of my furnace, now putting lit charcoals on top of it, that it became as if red.
 It is true that the material was whitish, almost like metalline , but this was because of the potin. I made
 whitish, almost like metalline, but this was because of the potin . I made another cast with only the material of
 of the potin. I made another cast with only the material of a skillet in the same sand, but not so reheated; it did
 with only the material of a skillet in the same sand , but not so reheated; it did not come out
 not come out well. Since then I have molded the bone of oxen feet, burned, pulverized & sieved through a double sieve & hum fort moistened
 sieved through a double sieve & hum fort moistened with glair of egg or wine boiled with elm root. I knocked on it
 sieve & hum fort moistened with glair of egg or wine boiled with elm root . I knocked on it moderately while molding. Having undone
 left the molds floury & crumbling. I les moistened the bone sand further, so that it gave a good hold in the
 release. And even though it seemed to me that the pulverized bone was coarse, if there is some material of a skillet
 that the pulverized bone was coarse, if there is some material of a skillet thrown in, my figures came out very neatly. It is
 it withstood only one cast. I find that when a sand is so finely grounded that it renders itself dense as
 is so finely grounded that it renders itself dense as ceruse & even, like without knowing it to be arid, rarefied,
 that it molds very neatly, but it does not receive metal so well as if it were porous to absorb the
 that the secret to cast well lies in finding a sand that receives the metal well, one for lead, the other
 cast well lies in finding a sand that receives the metal well, one for lead, the other for another, for each
 finding a sand that receives the metal well, one for lead , the other for another, for each one has its
 & always has some fault. Finally, you ought to cast copper or latten or other great metals very hot &, if
 has some fault. Finally, you ought to cast copper or latten or other great metals very hot &, if it is
 Finally, you ought to cast copper or latten or other great metals very hot &, if it is possible, in large quantities
 be cold, & that you cast all at once. Always lute the entrance of your frame, for the metal, touching iron
 once. Always lute the entrance of your frame, for the metal , touching iron or metal, This bone wants to be
 lute the entrance of your frame, for the metal, touching iron or metal, This bone wants to be well pestled in
 entrance of your frame, for the metal, touching iron or metal , This bone wants to be well pestled in a
 your frame, for the metal, touching iron or metal, This bone wants to be well pestled in a mortar and does
 is always higher than the molded thing, because usually the sand , being reheated, swells & if the par ce in
 way, the molded thing remaining higher than the cast, the metal cannot run into it easily or enter at all. Also,
 wind. And if your medal is really thin, put a card or two or three thicknesses of paper underneath, when you
 thin, put a card or two or three thicknesses of paper underneath, when you want to mold it. In this way
 the least thick & where there will be less relief. Excellent sand for lead, tin, and copper D Since then, I have molded with burnt bone, iron
 & where there will be less relief. Excellent sand for lead , tin, and copper D Since then, I have molded
 where there will be less relief. Excellent sand for lead, tin , and copper D Since then, I have molded with
 will be less relief. Excellent sand for lead, tin, and copper D Since then, I have molded with burnt bone, iron
 tin, and copper D Since then, I have molded with burnt bone , iron dross & burned felt, thoroughly pulverized & ground
 copper D Since then, I have molded with burnt bone, iron dross & burned felt, thoroughly pulverized & ground finely on marble
 then, I have molded with burnt bone, iron dross & burned felt , thoroughly pulverized & ground finely on marble and well
 dross & burned felt, thoroughly pulverized & ground finely on marble and well mixed together. I moistened them very well with
 and well mixed together. I moistened them very well with beaten glair of egg . And having covered the medal with it, as in
 it, as in the others, then filled the frame with sand from the mine , I knocked moderately. I found it to be of
 ought to remain in the frame). I cast twice in copper alloyed with ☾, as old K. The substance turned out
 in the frame). I cast twice in copper alloyed with ☾ , as old K. The substance turned out very beautiful,
 I cast twice in copper alloyed with ☾, as old K . The substance turned out very beautiful, shiny & sonorous,
 beautiful, shiny & sonorous, & without a crust, and my sand was not corrupted at all. Since then, I have cast
 Since then, I have cast with it several casts of soft lead & tin that came out better & more neatly than
 have cast with it several casts of soft lead & tin that came out better & more neatly than any other
 to attract the substance to all sides, in this way. Potin of syringe & other co works runs even better than fine latten.
 of syringe & other co works runs even better than fine latten . But I think that it is better half copper
 fine latten. But I think that it is better half copper & half latten, which have been used & have been
 I think that it is better half copper & half latten , which have been used & have been in very
 it gives a more vigorous heat. It is true that latten melts well in the four à vent, because it is
 four à vent, because it is easier to melt than copper , being more brittle. Some of the founders have this
 not knock excessively on the medal, which is in the sand , because it prevents it from releasing very neatly &
 & shakes loose the mold. Take heed also that the sand does not surpass the edges of the frame, for it
 molded medal higher than the cast, & in this way, metal will never enter the mold. Therefore, always make sure that
 if it seems good to you, put a piece of carton of whatever thickness you please. Founders, in order to prevent
 sufficiently reheated. To cast their cannons neatly, they mix their earth with some fine casting sand, if they can find any.
 cast their cannons neatly, they mix their earth with some fine casting sand , if they can find any. Sand from Thoulouse The
 with some fine casting sand, if they can find any. Sand from Thoulouse The usual bo good one is the one which is
 any. Sand from Thoulouse The usual bo good one is the one which is found in a vineyard near Puy David , but the one which is most excellent is the
 Puy David, but the one which is most excellent is the one is from the Touch, near Sainct Michel & toward Blagnac, in a vineyard that is quite high up . The latter is thinner & a little fatter than
 works. It does not want to be reheated too much. Sand , slate, and burned earth Thoroughly burnt sand loses its
 It does not want to be reheated too much. Sand, slate , and burned earth Thoroughly burnt sand loses its bond.
 not want to be reheated too much. Sand, slate, and burned earth Thoroughly burnt sand loses its bond. Slate is reheated &
 to be reheated too much. Sand, slate, and burned earth Thoroughly burnt sand loses its bond. Slate is reheated & molds neatly. Next,
 slate, and burned earth Thoroughly burnt sand loses its bond. Slate is reheated & molds neatly. Next, it is true that
 Next, it is true that it often becomes porous, as burned earth also does, as fatty sand also does. I find that
 it often becomes porous, as burned earth also does, as fatty sand also does. I find that one ought not to knock
 does. I find that one ought not to knock on very finely ground sands , for it shakes them loose & make prevents them
 But one ought to press hard and moisten them sufficiently. Magistra Founders take the roots of a young elm when it
 press hard and moisten them sufficiently. Magistra Founders take the roots of a young elm when it is in sap & boil it in wine,
 elm when it is in sap & boil it in wine , or better yet vinegar, and keep it all year
 in sap & boil it in wine, or better yet vinegar , and keep it all year long in a barrel.
 vinegar, and keep it all year long in a barrel. Sand of the mine of Thoulouse Casting sand coming from the mine, once passed through a
 long in a barrel. Sand of the mine of Thoulouse Casting sand coming from the mine , once passed through a double sieve, next put in
 once passed through a double sieve, next put in with melted resin , burns & inflames & becomes all red & inflamed
 burns & inflames & becomes all red & inflamed like iron . Once cold, it is completely black and can be
 is completely black and can be ground very finely on porphyry . Having prepared it thus & rendered it without asperity
 it without asperity on the fingernail, I moistened it with beaten glair of egg & beat it well, until it was not pasty but
 it of very good release, & molded with it in lead & tin very neatly, but it wants to be well
 very good release, & molded with it in lead & tin very neatly, but it wants to be well reheated &
 only to dry it. Next, they grind it dry on porphyry . And thus it becomes as if impalpable and not
 and it retains the body & the bond of the earth to which it is kin and is better than when
 better than when it is so burnt. Once moistened with glair of egg passed through a sponge , it releases very neatly M very neatly in low
 have experimented lexper with moistening it only with very strong vinegar . It released a figure which I could not release
 believe that, moistening the finest in a fashion as with glair , & the coarsest, for filling, with gushes of salt
 with glair, & the coarsest, for filling, with gushes of salt water or wine, that they do not join so well. But
 the coarsest, for filling, with gushes of salt water or wine , that they do not join so well. But as
 with the other. To mold well, after having prepared your sands , mold in a day. Slowly reheat them the next
 found higher up is too much a kin of the earth , and the lower is a kin of the rock.
 the earth, and the lower is a kin of the rock . I have molded it from pure lead cast very
 a kin of the rock. I have molded it from pure lead cast very neatlyhot, & I had as an example the
 had as an example the very neat principal, but the vinegar hardly gives it any bond, & thus it sustained only
 a point at the top, for it grows higher. Mortars Fine copper mortars do not throw fire, as long as the iron
 copper mortars do not throw fire, as long as the iron pestle is not tempered. The metal mortar does the same,
 as long as the iron pestle is not tempered. The metal mortar does the same, because it is sour. One makes,
 makes, for this purpose, the bottom of large mortars from fine copper . Varnish Turpentine oil, turpentine & good eau-de-vie to render
 this purpose, the bottom of large mortars from fine copper. Varnish Turpentine oil, turpentine & good eau-de-vie to render it desiccative.
 purpose, the bottom of large mortars from fine copper. Varnish Turpentine oil , turpentine & good eau-de-vie to render it desiccative. Heat
 bottom of large mortars from fine copper. Varnish Turpentine oil, turpentine & good eau-de-vie to render it desiccative. Heat it without
 large mortars from fine copper. Varnish Turpentine oil, turpentine & good eau-de-vie to render it desiccative. Heat it without mixing on the
 side takes very rarely when it is also bent. Baker Dust keeps wheat from becoming infested with weevils. And to clean
 very rarely when it is also bent. Baker Dust keeps wheat from becoming infested with weevils. And to clean it well
 well when it is stained & as if rusty, pass ashes through the sieve & mix them with the wheat, then
 pass ashes through the sieve & mix them with the wheat , then boult the whole with a boulting cloth of
 wheat, then boult the whole with a boulting cloth of rough cloth or canvas. The ashes will pass through & your wheat
 the whole with a boulting cloth of rough cloth or canvas . The ashes will pass through & your wheat will
 with a boulting cloth of rough cloth or canvas. The ashes will pass through & your wheat will stay yellow, clean
 cloth or canvas. The ashes will pass through & your wheat will stay yellow, clean & very beautiful. Looking-glass tin It
 & your wheat will stay yellow, clean & very beautiful. Looking-glass tin It makes the substance whiter. Sand from pulverized rock salt
 & very beautiful. Looking-glass tin It makes the substance whiter. Sand from pulverized rock salt and sand from the mine finely ground on marble The
 makes the substance whiter. Sand from pulverized rock salt and sand from the mine finely ground on marble The one and the other, once
 rock salt and sand from the mine finely ground on marble The one and the other, once very finely ground on
 The one and the other, once very finely ground on marble , after having thoroughly pestled them dry & beaten in
 one as the other, and having reworked them together on porphyry & passed them through a double sieve or through the
 shirt to mixs them even better, I put them in paper & put them on a marble in a cellar. In
 I put them in paper & put them on a marble in a cellar. In one night, they had been moistened
 been moistened enough by themselves without dampening them further, because rock salt , like all other salts, dissolves in the damp. I
 without dampening them further, because rock salt, like all other salts , dissolves in the damp. I molded very neatly with
 They want to be f humid enough to release well. Mineral sand It does not matter if the color is white or
 amassed, and that when removing itself in the form of rock , it comes out in lumps & qu bricks, which
 enough, you can pass & grind it finely, either through water or through a sieve & when it or on the
 or through a sieve & when it or on the porphyry , & in this way, from sil lean they become
 mold with it in sa frame or en noyau without cloth waste , & try it with lead, for if with this
 or en noyau without cloth waste, & try it with lead , for if with this it does not become porous
 porous & casts neatly, it will also behave well with copper . Some say that the fatty sands do not want
 will also behave well with copper. Some say that the fatty sands do not want the metal to be cast too hot.
 Some say that the fatty sands do not want the metal to be cast too hot. Artisans who work in large
 do not need to grind & seek the curiosities of artificial sands , benefit more from seeking some that is ready-made by
 impalpable, because they do not need a lot of it. Orberé grain makes a tawny powder, very delicate & very soft, which,
 soft, which, once mixed, could mix mold very neatly. Try wheat flour burned over a closed fire. Sand of burnt ox bones
 very neatly. Try wheat flour burned over a closed fire. Sand of burnt ox bones and rock salt I have pulverized them separately & finely ground them on
 I have pulverized them separately & finely ground them on porphyry , as much as I could. Then I mixed as
 much of one as the other & reworked them on porphyry . Next, I moistened it in paper, folded in a
 & reworked them on porphyry. Next, I moistened it in paper , folded in a wet napkin, which is previously made
 it is very hot. It came out very neatly in soft tin , like the principal, and withstood several casts. For tin,
 soft tin, like the principal, and withstood several casts. For tin , I believe that it is not necessary to seek
 is not necessary to seek a better one, nor for fine lead either, which comes out almost as neatly as tin. Tou
 fine lead either, which comes out almost as neatly as tin . Tou The bone of the foot of oxen is
 which comes out almost as neatly as tin. Tou The bone of the foot of oxen is always so lean on its own that, without being
 without being mixed with one or two parts of some fatty sand & one that has bond, such as tripoli, salts, felt,
 some fatty sand & one that has bond, such as tripoli , salts, felt, ashes & similar things, it would not
 fatty sand & one that has bond, such as tripoli, salts , felt, ashes & similar things, it would not release
 sand & one that has bond, such as tripoli, salts, felt , ashes & similar things, it would not release &
 & one that has bond, such as tripoli, salts, felt, ashes & similar things, it would not release & would not
 that nothing falls in it that could hinder your fusion. Natural sand It does not want to be reheated for lead and
 Natural sand It does not want to be reheated for lead and tin, m and is better very new & fresh.
 It does not want to be reheated for lead and tin , m and is better very new & fresh. Sal
 and tin, m and is better very new & fresh. Sal ammoniac and alabaster Sal ammoniac, well pulverized mou & ground dry
 and is better very new & fresh. Sal ammoniac and alabaster Sal ammoniac, well pulverized mou & ground dry on marble,
 is better very new & fresh. Sal ammoniac and alabaster Sal ammoniac, well pulverized mou & ground dry on marble, molds very neatly &
 alabaster Sal ammoniac, well pulverized mou & ground dry on marble , molds very neatly & is of a very beautiful
 is of a very beautiful release, & once mixed with alabaster, pulverized similarly, ii ℥ per lb of alabaster makes it release
 mixed with alabaster, pulverized similarly, ii ℥ per lb of alabaster makes it release well. It suffices to moisten it in
 or, to be done more quickly, in a piece of paper between a wet napkin. Take heed that it does not
 fire. Otherwise the heat makes it swell & pushes the salt onto the surface, which renders it lumpy. You can in
 renders it lumpy. You can in anoint the medal with spike lavender oil , molding en noyau. It is better to put in
 noyau. It is better to put in 4 ℥ of sal ammoniac per lb, and moisten it in a damp place for
 it acquires strength by reheating, for it becomes hard as stone &, in this way, is more certain to release well.
 as before and put it back in the damp. All sand that releases well has body & gives a good hold. Ammoniac is fatty
 that releases well has body & gives a good hold. Ammoniac is fatty and a va is nevertheless sandy, which makes
 makes it release well. There is no better bond than salts appropriate for metals , for once mixed in powder, they get moistened together
 powder, they get moistened together & dry & reheat together. Glassmakers’ white sand from the mine , mixed with sal ammoniac There is found in Cominge,
 reheat together. Glassmakers’ white sand from the mine, mixed with sal ammoniac There is found in Cominge, near the town of Aurignac,
 is found in Cominge, near the town of Aurignac, a sand white mai like salt and lean , that glassmakers & potters use, which becomes impalpable ground
 near the town of Aurignac, a sand white mai like salt and lean, that glassmakers & potters use, which becomes impalpable
 that glassmakers & potters use, which becomes impalpable ground on porphyry & is easy to grind. And once ground, it resembles
 & is easy to grind. And once ground, it resembles calcined alabaster . It molds very neatly, and I have not found
 en noyau without a frame, having ground it impalpable with gummed or pure water on porphyry, then placing it, thick as mustard or a
 having ground it impalpable with gummed or pure water on porphyry , then placing it, thick as mustard or a little
 or pure water on porphyry, then placing it, thick as mustard or a little more, on the medal, anointed lightly with
 or a little more, on the medal, anointed lightly with oil either of olive, walnut, or even better spike lavender . But to do it better mo, let it dry
 Once dry, reheat it & it will withstand several casts. Sal ammoniac and iron dross I have pulverized sal ammoniac, dried well
 it & it will withstand several casts. Sal ammoniac and iron dross I have pulverized sal ammoniac, dried well in the fire
 several casts. Sal ammoniac and iron dross I have pulverized sal ammoniac , dried well in the fire & in a hot
 ammoniac, dried well in the fire & in a hot bronze mortar, and passed it through the double sieve; it became
 it even more delicate, I have ground it dry on porphyry . Then, I mixed it with pulverized & finely ground
 ground it dry on porphyry. Then, I mixed it with pulverized & finely ground iron dross , in the same way, and both mold very neatly
 or otherwise with the napkin, & it releases very neatly. Sand Molders from Foix who cast theireu medals crosswise, use crocum
 Sand Molders from Foix who cast theireu medals crosswise, use crocum ferri and calcined slate. It is for very flat things. That
 Foix who cast theireu medals crosswise, use crocum ferri and calcined slate . It is for very flat things. That any sand
 calcined slate. It is for very flat things. That any sand can be rendered good Artisans who work in large works
 they would use for grinding finely & for artificially preparing sands , seek the one of the s mines, which is
 use for grinding finely & for artificially preparing sands, seek the one of the s mines , which is not too fatty, the one that is
 not too fatty, the one that is a kin of earth , not too lean & consequently without bond, but rather
 in mountainous areas or lean territories, & akin to the arene , it cannot be found in in the surroundings of
 be certain that in all places you can render the sand from a mine good & proper for molding. For if it is coarse,
 is not yet fine enough, wash it, & when the water has rested a little, empty that which is still troubled
 but the one which will have come from the troubled water , set apart, having settled, will be very fine. And
 does not have enough bond, grind it quite dry on porphyry , & you will render it impalpable, & which will
 will render it impalpable, & which will have bond like chalk . Then, if it seems right to you, you will
 it & again will grind it & mix it with salts , or linen, or burnt felt, or ashes of paper
 again will grind it & mix it with salts, or linen, or burnt felt , or ashes of paper & similarly washed things. Terre
 mix it with salts, or linen, or burnt felt, or ashes of paper & similarly washed things. Terre fondue of potters Grind it
 burnt felt, or ashes of paper & similarly washed things. Terre fondue of potters Grind it in a mortar mustard mill with some water
 things. Terre fondue of potters Grind it in a mortar mustard mill with some water & render it impalpable, dry it
 potters Grind it in a mortar mustard mill with some water & render it impalpable, dry it & next moisten it
 render it impalpable, dry it & next moisten it with salt water , which gives strength to u all sands to withstand
 it with salt water, which gives strength to u all sands to withstand several casts. Orange trees In Italy, those who
 & not with nails, in order to not shake the soil when one opens them. Grafting With any tree that has
 turns fragile & short & slow to grow. Molding with cuttlefish bone Guard against keeping them in a damp place, for they
 to getting moist. If your medal is small, cut the bone in two, then even it out with a knife. And
 even it out with a knife. And on a hooked rooftile , quite dry & quite smoothed & covered with pulverized
 hooked rooftile, quite dry & quite smoothed & covered with pulverized willow charcoal , rub & smooth the two halves of the bones.
 willow charcoal, rub & smooth the two halves of the bones . Thus they imbibe this willow charcoal, which makes them
 the two halves of the bones. Thus they imbibe this willow charcoal , which makes them release well & guards against removing
 a counter bone, that is to say a piece of brick evened to the size of your bone, place your medal,
 a piece of brick evened to the size of your bone , place your medal, & then on this one, place
 place your medal, & then on this one, place the bone , & press well with some other piece of the
 second time, mold it, but before, pounce on top with willow charcoal & blow lightly, then press as before, and it will
 it is for a spoon handle, one needs two whole bones . All cast work is brittle & subject to breaking,
 cast work is brittle & subject to breaking, because the metal expands when cast, & retracts & condenses under the hammer.
 cast thing with a chisel, & in this way the metal retracts. Let it thus escrouir. If the piece for molding
 if the medal has two sides Before casting, heat the bones in order to make them lose only the coldness &
 make them lose only the coldness & dampness. When the lead gets too hot, it calcines. since the two bones are
 the lead gets too hot, it calcines. since the two bones are joined, co cut them evenly all around, & make
 different places which cross over the join of the two bones , in order to recognize well the place of the
 of the first join. Or else, with little shards of wood , pierce them, or ma coat the joins with some
 wood, pierce them, or ma coat the joins with some clay , & dry. Press, between them your hands joined between
 your two knees & not with a press, because the bones would crack. Mold also at your leisure & two or
 And each time before replacing the piece, pounce with some willow charcoal , for it makes it release well. When you have
 release well. When you have cast, rub the medal with oil & with willow charcoal powder & with a brush, to
 you have cast, rub the medal with oil & with willow charcoal powder & with a brush, to make it dull. Take care
 Take care that your medal is not too greasy or oily when you mold in cuttlefish bone. When you have cast,
 is not too greasy or oily when you mold in cuttlefish bone . When you have cast, leave it to cool before
 one takes it out hot, it brings with it some bone . And cast moderately hot, which you will know when
 And cast moderately hot, which you will know when the bone is about to change its good whiteness. But when it
 whiteness. But when it is too hot, it turns the bone very red. The proportion of lead & tin is as
 hot, it turns the bone very red. The proportion of lead & tin is as much of one as of the
 turns the bone very red. The proportion of lead & tin is as much of one as of the other. If
 medal, like straight on the heads, for this attracts the metal & feeds the figure better. Shake your frame a little
 cast, and thus you will make very neatly several casts. Tin that is too hot pburns the bone, which is corrupted.
 neatly several casts. Tin that is too hot pburns the bone , which is corrupted. Also, once taken out du mo
 out du mo hot from the mold, it risks breaking. Sand Mixture easy to melt One ℥ de part soft tin,
 breaking. Sand Mixture easy to melt One ℥ de part soft tin , one part fine lead, one part looking-glass tin &
 to melt One ℥ de part soft tin, one part fine lead , one part looking-glass tin & one part fixed quicksilver
 de part soft tin, one part fine lead, one part looking-glass tin & one part fixed quicksilver makes an alloy & a
 part fine lead, one part looking-glass tin & one part fixed quicksilver makes an alloy & a solder so easy to melt
 & one part fixed quicksilver makes an alloy & a solder so easy to melt that it can easily be melted
 that it can easily be melted in a dish of fine tin . Molding hollow on one side and in relief on
 other And for this effect, one casts a medal of fine tin , which is harder to melt. And since it is
 better. And next, you will cast in your frame some solder described above, or another more meltable than fine tin. And
 frame some solder described above, or another more meltable than fine tin . And thus, the second medal will melt & mold
 But to make sure this is done right, mix some lamp black with water &, with a paintbrush, give a light coat
 sure this is done right, mix some lamp black with water &, with a paintbrush, give a light coat of this
 will not melt. But if you have a medal of copper or silver, you can leave it in the cast if
 melt. But if you have a medal of copper or silver , you can leave it in the cast if you
 it in the cast if you want to cast with lead or tin. But it is necessary that it be a
 the cast if you want to cast with lead or tin . But it is necessary that it be a little
 be a little hot, for the cold would make the tin contract. Tin wants to be cast quite hot to come
 little hot, for the cold would make the tin contract. Tin wants to be cast quite hot to come out neat.
 wants to be cast quite hot to come out neat. Soft tin , which is the best for the cast, is the
 is brittle & that is not shiny as if burnished. Potin Potin, being cast hot, runs & flows like tin. But
 brittle & that is not shiny as if burnished. Potin Potin , being cast hot, runs & flows like tin. But
 burnished. Potin Potin, being cast hot, runs & flows like tin . But the medal becomes whitish from this, and immediately
 medal becomes whitish from this, and immediately casts out the verd , which a good material does not do. Molding statues
 which a good material does not do. Molding statues Half founder’s earth which founders use & half clay earth g renders very neatly. Sand from
 Molding statues Half founder’s earth which founders use & half clay earth g renders very neatly. Sand from river tellins and mussels
 founders use & half clay earth g renders very neatly. Sand from river tellins and mussels The long shells that one finds in fresh water rivers,
 very neatly. Sand from river tellins and mussels The long shells that one finds in fresh water rivers, once calcined, make
 one finds in fresh water rivers, once calcined, make an impalpable white sand , which molds very neatly. Congealing mercury It congeals, just
 make an impalpable white sand, which molds very neatly. Congealing mercury It congeals, just as I tried, by boiling it one
 boiling it one or two hours in a rather large iron pot, putting in, for an ℥ of ☿, ii ℥
 rather large iron pot, putting in, for an ℥ of ☿ , ii ℥ of verdet de and vitriol of saltpeter,
 putting in, for an ℥ of ☿, ii ℥ of verdet de and vitriol of saltpeter, ana, with sufficient quantity of
 an ℥ of ☿, ii ℥ of verdet de and vitriol of saltpeter , ana, with sufficient quantity of old water from farriers.
 de and vitriol of saltpeter, ana, with sufficient quantity of old water from farriers . Or else, melt 4 ℥ of tin, & as
 old water from farriers. Or else, melt 4 ℥ of tin , & as it cools, purify it of its filth,
 of tin, & as it cools, purify it of its filth , which is on top, then, make a hole in
 hole in it & put in this i ℥ of ☿ & it will come out like tin if you remelt
 i ℥ of ☿ & it will come out like tin if you remelt it, but it will be breakable. And
 breakable. And if you want to assay if it is tin or ☿, redden a shovel & put a small piece
 if you want to assay if it is tin or ☿ , redden a shovel & put a small piece of
 small piece of your ingot on top. If it is tin , it will melt & stay, but if it is
 tin, it will melt & stay, but if it is ☿ , will quickly melt, then, crackling quite strongly, it will
 hole. It can also be congealed, as I assayed, in aquafortis which beforehand will have eaten a little silver. This one,
 assayed, in aquafortis which beforehand will have eaten a little silver . This one, mixed, makes tin & lead run. Mixture
 will have eaten a little silver. This one, mixed, makes tin & lead run. Mixture Fine tin, congealed mercury with the
 eaten a little silver. This one, mixed, makes tin & lead run. Mixture Fine tin, congealed mercury with the smell of
 silver. This one, mixed, makes tin & lead run. Mixture Fine tin , congealed mercury with the smell of tin, looking-glass tin,
 one, mixed, makes tin & lead run. Mixture Fine tin, congealed mercury with the smell of tin, looking-glass tin, fine lead, as
 run. Mixture Fine tin, congealed mercury with the smell of tin , looking-glass tin, fine lead, as much of one as
 Mixture Fine tin, congealed mercury with the smell of tin, looking-glass tin , fine lead, as much of one as the other,
 tin, congealed mercury with the smell of tin, looking-glass tin, fine lead , as much of one as the other, makes a
 & white. I think that it would be good for solder . A long time to cool. Olives They are spoiled
 spoiled if once a month one does not refresh their salt water , which one ought not to touch with the hands,
 they dry before the humor of the sap pushes them. Sand The white ash of all woods, which still sticks to
 before the humor of the sap pushes them. Sand The white ash of all woods , which still sticks to the wood that burns, and
 white ash of all woods, which still sticks to the wood that burns, and which has not fallen into the bo
 has not fallen into the bo hearth, molds very neatly. Sand Ashes Well pulverized tallow molds & releases very neatly. The
 not fallen into the bo hearth, molds very neatly. Sand Ashes Well pulverized tallow molds & releases very neatly. The one
 fallen into the bo hearth, molds very neatly. Sand Ashes Well pulverized tallow molds & releases very neatly. The one from the kitchens,
 is fatty & shiny, from the big kitchens, is better. Finely pulverized quicklime works. The same for broken-up flint, which works better in
 is better. Finely pulverized quicklime works. The same for broken-up flint , which works better in the cavity. Faces in distemper
 broken-up flint, which works better in the cavity. Faces in distemper Because colors in distemper dry promptly & one would not
 better in the cavity. Faces in distemper Because colors in distemper dry promptly & one would not have leisure to perfect
 one wets the reverse of the face which is on canvas with a wet sponge. Then, with a small paintbrush, one
 strokes do not come undone because they are made of bistre , which stains the canvas like rust. The said bistre
 undone because they are made of bistre, which stains the canvas like rust. The said bistre is good with for making
 they are made of bistre, which stains the canvas like rust . The said bistre is good with for making shadows
 of bistre, which stains the canvas like rust. The said bistre is good with for making shadows in distemper mix, for
 The said bistre is good with for making shadows in distemper mix, for in oil it has no body & would
 good with for making shadows in distemper mix, for in oil it has no body & would not dry but with
 dry but with great difficulty. One mixes in the said bistre , for shadow, ocre de ru & a little sap
 great difficulty. One mixes in the said bistre, for shadow, ocre de ru & a little sap green. The best bistre is the
 said bistre, for shadow, ocre de ru & a little sap green . The best bistre is the greasy & shiny kind
 ocre de ru & a little sap green. The best bistre is the greasy & shiny kind from the fireplaces of
 kitchens. It is difficult to grind & screeches on the marble . Azure Azur d’esmail always wants to be cleaned, because
 It is difficult to grind & screeches on the marble. Azure Azur d’esmail always wants to be cleaned, because the filth
 is difficult to grind & screeches on the marble. Azure Azur d’esmail always wants to be cleaned, because the filth that can
 Azure Azur d’esmail always wants to be cleaned, because the filth that can be perceived in the wash water makes it
 cleaned, because the filth that can be perceived in the wash water makes it die. One needs to layer it two times,
 it first lengthwise then across. It is better used on canvas , where it is imbibed immediately, than on wood. Varnish
 used on canvas, where it is imbibed immediately, than on wood . Varnish returns it to its vigor, because being imbibed,
 on canvas, where it is imbibed immediately, than on wood. Varnish returns it to its vigor, because being imbibed, it becomes
 temper & alloy it with a little white ground in oil , for in this way, the beautiful shows its turquine
 working. It is thinned working by washing it. Violet and lake It is made of azure & lake, which is also
 by washing it. Violet and lake It is made of azure & lake, which is also assayed on the palette with
 it. Violet and lake It is made of azure & lake , which is also assayed on the palette with white.
 is deemed beautiful that, on a polished knife or on glass , givesu a clear red color of red rose, tending
 branches of the guard & the pontet, which is this iron strip which closes off the branch which is at the
 is called the eye of the guard. Then follows the wood of the grip, which one glues, or according to the
 guard. Then follows the wood of the grip, which one glues , or according to the most competent, with gummed wax,
 which one glues, or according to the most competent, with gummed wax , which is of wax & pitch, because rosin would
 to the most competent, with gummed wax, which is of wax & pitch, because rosin would be too hard. They heat
 most competent, with gummed wax, which is of wax & pitch , because rosin would be too hard. They heat it
 with gummed wax, which is of wax & pitch, because rosin would be too hard. They heat it lightly, then rub
 be too hard. They heat it lightly, then rub the wood of the grip with it in order that the tang
 grip with it in order that the tang or the thread takes hold there. Otherwise, if a thread were to come
 tang or the thread takes hold there. Otherwise, if a thread were to come loose, it would all d break immediately.
 to come loose, it would all d break immediately. On iron wire or dog skin, one also puts glue on it. The
 it would all d break immediately. On iron wire or dog skin , one also puts glue on it. The garnishment of
 immediately. On iron wire or dog skin, one also puts glue on it. The garnishment of which is put on the
 on it. The garnishment of which is put on the wood of, which is of silk or thread, is called the
 which is put on the wood of, which is of silk or thread, is called the cord, which is made from
 put on the wood of, which is of silk or thread , is called the cord, which is made from two
 the cord, which is made from two thr or three threads turned twisted on the spinning wheel, or 4 if the
 turned twisted on the spinning wheel, or 4 if the silk is thin. The slightly thicker cord holds better. The binding,
 cord holds better. The binding, which is also made of silk at both ends of the handle, are called the buttons.
 handle, are called the buttons. Some grips are made of silk , dogfish skin, annealed iron wire, threads of gold &
 are called the buttons. Some grips are made of silk, dogfish skin , annealed iron wire, threads of gold & of fine
 the buttons. Some grips are made of silk, dogfish skin, annealed iron wire , threads of gold & of fine & false silver
 grips are made of silk, dogfish skin, annealed iron wire, threads of gold & of fine & false silve r & of velvet. Iron wire has a lower price
 of gold & of fine & false silver & of velvet . Iron wire has a lower price & is the
 gold & of fine & false silver & of velvet. Iron wire has a lower price & is the most durable. Next
 & is the most durable. Next is the grip of silk , if one does not have the convenience of being
 convenience of being close to the sea to procure some dog skin , which is quite convenient. To The beautiful skin costs
 some dog skin, which is quite convenient. To The beautiful skin costs fifty or lx sous & 4 or five dozen
 hard, one soaks it for one or two hours in not quite lukewarm aquafortis , for if it were too hot, it would cook
 it were too hot, it would cook & spoil the skin . It is sewn with black thread. The gold grips
 would cook & spoil the skin. It is sewn with black thread . The gold grips are made by putting underneath thin
 spoil the skin. It is sewn with black thread. The gold grips are made by putting underneath thin yellow canvas or
 black thread. The gold grips are made by putting underneath thin yellow canvas or a different canvas yellowed with chalk. And this canvas
 made by putting underneath thin yellow canvas or a different canvas yellowed with chalk . And this canvas is set with glue or the
 canvas or a different canvas yellowed with chalk. And this canvas is set with glue or the aforesaid gum, this is
 canvas yellowed with chalk. And this canvas is set with glue or the aforesaid gum, this is in order that the
 And this canvas is set with glue or the aforesaid gum , this is in order that the thread holds better
 or the aforesaid gum, this is in order that the thread holds better on it. These are made of cords like
 better on it. These are made of cords like the silk ones, & between two cords one sets one or two
 ones, & between two cords one sets one or two threads to make it show up better. The silver kind is
 or two threads to make it show up better. The silver kind is made similarly, and there is not as much
 similarly, and there is not as much trouble as with silk , and even less because it takes more to twist
 silk, and even less because it takes more to twist silk , because one needs to twist it twice. A grip
 because one needs to twist it twice. A grip of fine gold is worth 18 or 20 sous. The best sword point
 18 or 20 sous. The best sword point is the sage leaf form. This long plank on which the sword is attached
 furbish it is called the chameau, it is commonly of rowan, which is hard & even. The lower stick, which is
 one is called the oil horn and the other the emery horn. There is an
 one is called the oil horn and the other the emery horn. There is an iron which is made like a
 horn and the other the emery horn. There is an iron which is made like a halberd point, square, & of
 which is made like a halberd point, square, & of very even steel, & well filed , which is called the grateau, which serves to to
 they have been ground, which is better than with a stone or a sharpening stone, which quite often makes scratches. To
 ground, which is better than with a stone or a sharpening stone , which quite often makes scratches. To make coupp swords
 from the furbisher. A is the bruisson B is the bloodstone The fustée is a square piece of wood three fingers
 a square piece of wood three fingers in thickness, of boxwood , which is fitted in the middle of the stick
 middle of the stick of the fustée to furbish. The fresil stick is of willow wood, which is to clean the
 of the fustée to furbish. The fresil stick is of willow wood , which is to clean the rust off weapons with
 wood, which is to clean the rust off weapons with fresil , which is the iron scale falling at the farriers’
 clean the rust off weapons with fresil, which is the iron scale falling at the farriers’ forge. scabbard bench a b D
 farriers’ forge. scabbard bench a b D the baston a felinder c the flin or thunder stone The furbisher buys his
 bench a b D the baston a felinder c the flin or thunder stone The furbisher buys his blades by the
 b D the baston a felinder c the flin or thunder stone The furbisher buys his blades by the dozen, which are
 & guards. Spanish ones are deemed better for being of better steel & iron , but they are not as well-forged as swords from
 then lay it down on the chameau, and with some pulverized emery , fine & soft as flour, & mixed with oil
 chameau, and with some pulverized emery, fine & soft as flour , & mixed with oil to make it hold, they
 pulverized emery, fine & soft as flour, & mixed with oil to make it hold, they furbish the sword with the
 grindstone, and then the clean the sword powell with the emery and give it a drop or two of oil, which
 the emery and give it a drop or two of oil , which they spread with the finger to give it
 with the finger to give it luster. Having put the oil , they furbish the sword again on the chameau with
 they furbish the sword again on the chameau with the felin , which is a thunderstone mounted in the middle of
 again on the chameau with the felin, which is a thunderstone mounted in the middle of a stick like the fustée,
 the fustée, and this stick is called the baton à felinder . Next, having passed it on the felin, they furbish
 the baton à felinder. Next, having passed it on the felin , they furbish it with chalk & the oil which
 having passed it on the felin, they furbish it with chalk & the oil which is on the sword. Next, they
 on the felin, they furbish it with chalk & the oil which is on the sword. Next, they wipe it &
 wipe it & go over it again, & furbish with dry chalk . And at the end, when they are ready mounted,
 puts the blade in a vise between two pieces of wood , then with a file, they enlarge the opening of
 rivet a piece of & the pommel a piece of wood , & with a hammer, one beats on it to
 the pommel is well secured & does not wobble. The wood is put there so as not to spoil the pommel.
 only spoils the sword & destroys the scabbard because the water enters through the joint of the nail. It is best
 joint of the nail. It is best to apply some rosin or glue on it, but rosin is better. And it
 the nail. It is best to apply some rosin or glue on it, but rosin is better. And it is best
 best to apply some rosin or glue on it, but rosin is better. And it is best when the end is
 end is well adjusted & set so hot that the pulverized rosin melts on the end. In this way, it does not
 Worked Guttered, which is with round moldings Pearled Scarfed, when the bands are crosswise Onioned, which is with
 which is the height of the art. They buy the wood pieces of beech wood for scabbards which are ready made,
 height of the art. They buy the wood pieces of beech wood for scabbards which are ready made, a hundred for xv
 the distance from the place where they are made. These wood pieces are thus called estelles, and have to be very
 a scabbard bench, and with a e g plane small iron tool similar to that of the joiners’ bench, they make
 is like a knife with two handles, one works the wood roughly from the top, next one passes the joiner’s plane
 the shape of the blade. The stop, which is a leather rim set on the edge of the blade shape, is
 levelled, one lays the sword on top, & with a black stone , one marks the width of the blade & the
 extends & not elsewhere. And this is to make the leather or velvet of the scabbard hold. Then one puts the
 not elsewhere. And this is to make the leather or velvet of the scabbard hold. Then one puts the sword into
 the scabbard, which is all sewn, and rub what is glued along the shape of the blade with tallow to make
 what is glued along the shape of the blade with tallow to make it run into the scabbard. The scabbard is
 it run into the scabbard. The scabbard is made of calf or sheep leather , the calf ones are all in one piece, but
 long, one makes them in pieces which are sewn between leather & flesh, & then they rub the stitching thoroughly with
 makes them in pieces which are sewn between leather & flesh , & then they rub the stitching thoroughly with a
 then they rub the stitching thoroughly with a piece of boxwood to cover & even it. From a good calf skin,
 piece of boxwood to cover & even it. From a good calf skin , viii or 9 or x scabbards can be taken.
 one thins them a little with a plane. If the skin is hard, one wets it in lightly lukewarm water, and
 plane. If the skin is hard, one wets it in lightly lukewarm water , and one does not leave it there for long.
 there for long. Next, the same worker who made the wood piece has to adjust the scabbard to be well made.
 as well. When the scabbard is made & sewn with black thread , one rubs it with a piece of boxwood or
 with black thread, one rubs it with a piece of boxwood or with a cloth, having daubed it a little in
 or with a cloth, having daubed it a little in oil . The scabbard of a good cow is better than
 is better than any and also costs more, except the velvet kind. Under the velvet, one commonly puts plain canvas or
 and also costs more, except the velvet kind. Under the velvet , one commonly puts plain canvas or a sheep scabbard
 except the velvet kind. Under the velvet, one commonly puts plain canvas or a sheep scabbard or a parchment cover. But the
 commonly puts plain canvas or a sheep scabbard or a parchment cover. But the best scabbard of all is a waxed
 parchment cover. But the best scabbard of all is a waxed scabbard, of either velvet or calf. It is because one
 best scabbard of all is a waxed scabbard, of either velvet or calf. It is because one covers the wood with
 either velvet or calf. It is because one covers the wood with thin canvas, which one next waxes, then one covers
 or calf. It is because one covers the wood with thin canvas , which one next waxes, then one covers it in
 one covers the wood with thin canvas, which one next waxes , then one covers it in velvet or calf. A
 canvas, which one next waxes, then one covers it in velvet or calf. A waxed scabbard is worth at least xxx
 waxes, then one covers it in velvet or calf. A waxed scabbard is worth at least xxx sous, a cow one
 least xxx sous, a cow one xx sous. From a sheep skin , v or vi. Grey guards Once they are white,
 called making them pass, one takes a cauldron full of ashes , which one covers with thoroughly lit charcoal, & thus
 quite strongly for an hour or two, and when the ashes are very hot, one pulls the charcoal to one side
 where the charcoal was, & one covers it completely with ashes . And when the body of the guard, which is
 this manner, the grey cannot pass too much, unless some hot charcoal touches it. The grey can be done well in the
 a danger that it may pass too much & produce filth , which will prevent it from taking color. Blue is
 from taking color. Blue is obtained as soon as the ash has heated the guards a little, but it is still
 Next, when they are still moderately hot, one passes the bloodstone over them, and when they cool, one turns them to
 several passes. And if the guards were not warm, the bloodstone would scrape & undo the color. One needs to take
 pass too far beyond grey, for they would throw off filth that would prevent the color from taking. One needs almost
 grey & another color. Grey is the lesser color after varnish , which is of two colors, either yellow or black.
 varnish, which is of two colors, either yellow or black. Yellow varnish One whitens very strongly & one cleans the guards well.
 strongly & one cleans the guards well. Next, one applies walnut olive oil all over them with a feather while they are cold,
 they are cold, and next turns them over a good charcoal fire that is on the furbishers’ furnace, without them touching
 that is on the furbishers’ furnace, without them touching the charcoal or the ash. And when they do not smoke anymore,
 the furbishers’ furnace, without them touching the charcoal or the ash . And when they do not smoke anymore, it is
 the charcoal or the ash. And when they do not smoke anymore, it is done. Black varnish It is said, at
 And when they do not smoke anymore, it is done. Black varnish It is said, at the beginning of the book where
 where you can see it, that it is made with galipot . Gilding One prepares the guards thoroughly with a soft,
 them as is said. But to gild & gild with silver , they ought not to pass more than a little
 to a vise, & with some tweezers, one layers the gold , & one sets it with bloodstone that is quite
 tweezers, one layers the gold, & one sets it with bloodstone that is quite clean & rubbed with putty. And when
 it with bloodstone that is quite clean & rubbed with putty . And when the guards are cold, one reheats them,
 guards are cold, one reheats them, then one layers the gold as above. And first, one gives of two layers, until
 at the beginning, & one gives the third covering of gold . Then, one burnishes very thoroughly & with great force
 burnishes very thoroughly & with great force with a large bloodstone . And But note that to burnish well, the guard
 it on lifts it from on top of the warm ashes with a small iron rod, which has been purposely made
 from on top of the warm ashes with a small iron rod, which has been purposely made to go into the
 is completely well-burnished, one rubs it very well with a white linen cloth , and the gold needs to be thicker & stronger
 it very well with a white linen cloth, and the gold needs to be thicker & stronger than for painters. A
 A quarteron is worth fifty or lx sous. Gilding with silver One needs to prepare the guards & whiten them with
 with a li file, a little coarser for than for gold . And one makes them pass beyond grey, as for
 And when they are hot, one needs to double the silver foil , then separate it with a knife; next, apply it
 then, reheat & apply until they are all gilt with silver . Next, one needs to cover them for the third
 to cover them for the third time with the doubled foil , as has been said, then burnish them very well
 burnish them very well & with force, not with the bloodstone but with a strong burnisher. Just as the burnisher ought
 strong burnisher. Just as the burnisher ought not to burnish gold . Mastic varnish dry in a half hour Some take
 burnisher. Just as the burnisher ought not to burnish gold. Mastic varnish dry in a half hour Some take 2 ℥ of
 dry in a half hour Some take 2 ℥ of mastic , a half ℥ of turpentine, & a half ℥
 Some take 2 ℥ of mastic, a half ℥ of turpentine , & a half ℥ of turpentine oil, & eau-de-vie,
 a half ℥ of turpentine, & a half ℥ of turpentine oil , & eau-de-vie, a little at your discretion because it
 of turpentine, & a half ℥ of turpentine oil, & eau-de-vie , a little at your discretion because it evaporates when
 I take turpentine
 I take turpentine oil at discretion & put in a good bit of turpentine,
 oil at discretion & put in a good bit of turpentine , because it remains always moist & attaches itself if
 & attaches itself if one puts in too much, & eau-de-vie , & heat in a varnished bowl the said oil,
 & eau-de-vie, & heat in a varnished bowl the said oil , & when it begins to be very hot, I
 it begins to be very hot, I put in some subtly ground mastic & around one-third of the oil passed through a sieve
 in some subtly ground mastic & around one-third of the oil passed through a sieve l, and let reheat until it
 until it is melted, which will be soon on hot ashes . Once all melted, try it on the knife, and
 that it has too much body, add in a little turpentine oil , and if it does not have enough, add in
 oil, and if it does not have enough, add in mastic , and thus it will be done. And keep it
 be done. And keep it well covered so that no filth gets in. When you want to make it, be careful
 to make it, be careful to sort & choose the mastic that is white & purified of any dirt & dust
 better. For if you do not purge it well, these straws & marks, pulverized into it, will remain within the varnish,
 straws & marks, pulverized into it, will remain within the varnish , & when you set it on white or flesh
 through a very fine sieve, and next mix it in oil , as is said. But if you want to make
 want to make it more carefully, extract a tear of mastic , as you know, pulverize, pass, & mix, and you
 not to breathe on it, for this will make the varnish whiten & take body. It almost dries when working. One
 body. It almost dries when working. One knows that this varnish does not have body enough when it does not take
 when it does not take well on a panel in oil , for it is like water. Therefore, add in pulverized
 well on a panel in oil, for it is like water . Therefore, add in pulverized mastic & heat until it
 in oil, for it is like water. Therefore, add in pulverized mastic & heat until it is good. This varnish is very
 in pulverized mastic & heat until it is good. This varnish is very white & beautiful, & does not go to
 & does not go to your head like that of spike lavender . For some, instead of tour turpentine oil, put spike
 like that of spike lavender. For some, instead of tour turpentine oil , put spike lavender oil, which is not as good.
 spike lavender. For some, instead of tour turpentine oil, put spike lavender oil , which is not as good. This varnish is laid
 put spike lavender oil, which is not as good. This varnish is laid down cold on the panel with a very
 they make a dry skin & crust. One lays the varnish with a finger so as make a lean layer, because
 their work will break in the fire in reheating. . Varnish for lutes They take a little turpentine, & oil of
 in reheating. . Varnish for lutes They take a little turpentine , & oil of turpentine or of spike lavender, &
 . Varnish for lutes They take a little turpentine, & oil of turpentine or of spike lavender , & amber pulverized & passed very subtly, & make
 turpentine, & oil of turpentine or of spike lavender, & amber pulverized & passed very subtly, & make like that of mastic,
 pulverized & passed very subtly, & make like that of mastic , & add in a little dragon’s bloodto color it
 make like that of mastic, & add in a little dragon’s blood to color it and make it reddish, and others some
 bloodto color it and make it reddish, and others some terra merita for yellow. Borders of a garden One needs to work
 of which you will un bord make holes with an iron stake where you will plant your rosemary. Behead & cut
 to measure, and prune from the bottom up. Locksmith To tin nails well, and other work, they file their work very
 & rid it of grease, they make it boil in vinegar , then they wipe it well with a linen cloth.
 boil in vinegar, then they wipe it well with a linen cloth. Next, they heat it & pass some rosin over
 a linen cloth. Next, they heat it & pass some rosin over the top, which coats it with a shiny skin
 the top, which coats it with a shiny skin like varnish . This done, they melt some pure & fine tin
 a shiny skin like varnish. This done, they melt some pure & fine tin in their estamiere, which is a little square iron box.
 fine tin in their estamiere, which is a little square iron box. And when the tin is well melted & moderately
 which is a little square iron box. And when the tin is well melted & moderately warm, they throw in rosin
 tin is well melted & moderately warm, they throw in rosin to burn the filth, & then they let the head
 & moderately warm, they throw in rosin to burn the filth , & then they let the head of a nail
 it out and shake it, hitting the top with an iron to make the tin that is superfluous fall off, &
 it, hitting the top with an iron to make the tin that is superfluous fall off, & clean it with a
 off, & clean it with a small stick wrapped in tow . And if it is not well tinned, you will
 stick wrapped in tow. And if it is not well tinned , you will rub it hot with a piece of
 tinned, you will rub it hot with a piece of rosin & do as before & let it cool. When the
 cools, it becomes yellow, which is a sign that the tin is the right temperature. But it becomes blue if the
 is the right temperature. But it becomes blue if the tin is too hot. Things t thus tinned are durable &
 blue if the tin is too hot. Things t thus tinned are durable & are not undone like tinning done in
 t thus tinned are durable & are not undone like tinning done in leaf , thus at the end of a year, they can
 that making a lizard die in the melted il des tin makes the tinning become very golden. Or else putting in
 lizard die in the melted il des tin makes the tinning become very golden. Or else putting in sal ammoniac. Small
 makes the tinning become very golden. Or else putting in sal ammoniac . Small dogs Small dogs who should be water-dogs are
 not too ripe in a firkin that one fills with brine . Then, one serves them all year among salads, raw
 Then, one serves them all year among salads, raw with oil & vinegar, for being thus prepared, they take long to
 serves them all year among salads, raw with oil & vinegar , for being thus prepared, they take long to cook.
 take long to cook. But take heed to test your brine with an egg, for if it is good & strong
 cook. But take heed to test your brine with an egg , for if it is good & strong enough, the
 egg, for if it is good & strong enough, the egg will float on top. If not, it is not strong
 it is not strong enough and would not preserve the fruits . Trees Which bear fruits quickly are aged and scarcely
 the nest before they can see & cover them with down or a hare skin. Thus, having not seen their father
 they can see & cover them with down or a hare skin . Thus, having not seen their father and known his
 better learn the whistle that one teaches them. Founding The putty is made of burnt earth which has served in the
 that one teaches them. Founding The putty is made of burnt earth which has served in the founding; this is earth bourre
 burnt earth which has served in the founding; this is earth bourre bolvene , in which one has founded. One grinds it on
 which one has founded. One grinds it on a big stone , & with this one makes the cope of first
 le only needs to be reheated in the flame of straw , and molds very neatly. The earth which molds en
 in the flame of straw, and molds very neatly. The earth which molds en noyau is subject to making it porous,
 finger the piece to be molded, which should be well oiled . And do it coat by coat, & not all
 do it coat by coat, & not all at once. Earth or sand moistened or ground with water wants to be
 coat by coat, & not all at once. Earth or sand moistened or ground with water wants to be reheated more
 all at once. Earth or sand moistened or ground with water wants to be reheated more than sand. Latten from a
 or ground with water wants to be reheated more than sand . Latten from a candlestick is not pure, for one
 ground with water wants to be reheated more than sand. Latten from a candlestick is not pure, for one mixes in it iron filings
 a candlestick is not pure, for one mixes in it iron filings & potin. Latten wants to be cast hotter than copper,
 not pure, for one mixes in it iron filings & potin . Latten wants to be cast hotter than copper, quod
 pure, for one mixes in it iron filings & potin. Latten wants to be cast hotter than copper, quod non credo.
 filings & potin. Latten wants to be cast hotter than copper , quod non credo. To cast carefully, one ought not
 non credo. To cast carefully, one ought not to take metals already alloyed , but take them pure & mix them. Iron hardly
 metals already alloyed, but take them pure & mix them. Iron hardly agrees with being cast in a mixture of copper
 Iron hardly agrees with being cast in a mixture of copper or latten. It is better to mold all with one
 agrees with being cast in a mixture of copper or latten . It is better to mold all with one sand,
 or latten. It is better to mold all with one sand , be it in a frame or noyau, rather than
 reheat for one or two hours et p, in thata charcoal fire which lights by itself, a crucible with the substance
 inside, and then blow & cover the crucible with large charcoals & the mouth of the furnace with bricks, and let
 with large charcoals & the mouth of the furnace with bricks , and let it consume two or three feedings of
 bricks, and let it consume two or three feedings of charcoal , which se fill the furnace above the crucible. At
 white & the substance is in a liquid bath like water & casting off pale blue flames, cast. The secret is
 secret is to cast very hot & in one go. Lean white sand without bond renders quite proper for casting, &, having body,
 &, having body, if you grind it very finely on porphyry or calcine it, reddening it several times in the fire,
 it several times in the fire, & spread it in vinegar or finely grind it with water, as you know. It
 & spread it in vinegar or finely grind it with water , as you know. It also molds very neatly en
 as I have experimented. But do not moisten it with salt water if you want to promptly reheat it, for salt boils
 salt water if you want to promptly reheat it, for salt boils on the fire & makes pustules, being pressed by
 not do this. I molded very neatly en noyau the substance of skillets . White sand smells like sulfur when reheated, and I
 I molded very neatly en noyau the substance of skillets. White sand smells like sulfur when reheated, and I believe it would
 en noyau the substance of skillets. White sand smells like sulfur when reheated, and I believe it would melt. And since
 in the mold comme a luster as if it were leaded or vitrified. I believe that glassmakers could use it. One
 believe that glassmakers could use it. One needs very little sal ammoniac dissolved in water. Bell handles They can be put back
 use it. One needs very little sal ammoniac dissolved in water . Bell handles They can be put back on without
 in the pit & mold it there. But should you solder a ref cracked bell, it is considered impossible to give
 They are very difficult to bore when they are of metal because the substance is brittle & frangible. But one z
 the touch-hole. This you will do by pouring a little oil on it; then, l turn the place of the touch-hole
 bore gently & at ease when the piece is of metal . Bells One does not make them in the pit
 they do not fit. Gilding your moldings for panels without gold Some take orpiment in leaf form & pulverize it &
 fit. Gilding your moldings for panels without gold Some take orpiment in leaf form & pulverize it & make moresque leaves & burnish it,
 make moresque leaves & burnish it, and it is this orpiment which is shiny like gold. However, ground metals or ground
 it, and it is this orpiment which is shiny like gold . However, ground metals or ground cristallin or touchstone are
 it is this orpiment which is shiny like gold. However, ground metals or ground cristallin or touchstone are better. Orpiment orange One
 orpiment which is shiny like gold. However, ground metals or ground cristallin or touchstone are better. Orpiment orange One sublimates it &
 shiny like gold. However, ground metals or ground cristallin or touchstone are better. Orpiment orange One sublimates it & one grinds
 However, ground metals or ground cristallin or touchstone are better. Orpiment orange One sublimates it & one grinds it, & some
 & one grinds it, & some put in a little arsenic to make it melt instead. Varnish Some make the one
 put in a little arsenic to make it melt instead. Varnish Some make the one of mastic with two ounces of
 make it melt instead. Varnish Some make the one of mastic with two ounces of mastic and one of clear &
 Some make the one of mastic with two ounces of mastic and one of clear & white turpentine oil & eau-de-vie
 of mastic with two ounces of mastic and one of clear & white turpentine oil & eau-de-vie as above. Heat it on ashes until it
 mastic and one of clear & white turpentine oil & eau-de-vie as above. Heat it on ashes until it is melted,
 white turpentine oil & eau-de-vie as above. Heat it on ashes until it is melted, then let it rest & put
 of dregs. Gold color To quickly make a layer of or on mat on canvas or other oil panel, one makes fatty walnut
 To quickly make a layer of or on mat on canvas or other oil panel, one makes fatty walnut oil in
 a layer of or on mat on canvas or other oil panel , one makes fatty walnut oil in the sun or
 mat on canvas or other oil panel, one makes fatty walnut oil in the sun or on the fire, as said above,
 thickens by itself in this way, although there is neither lead nor ceruse. And with this, grind massicot, minium & other
 itself in this way, although there is neither lead nor ceruse . And with this, grind massicot, minium & other desiccatives,
 there is neither lead nor ceruse. And with this, grind massicot , minium & other desiccatives, not verdet nor orpiment, for
 is neither lead nor ceruse. And with this, grind massicot, minium & other desiccatives, not verdet nor orpiment, for they cause
 And with this, grind massicot, minium & other desiccatives, not verdet nor orpiment, for they cause the gold to die. It
 this, grind massicot, minium & other desiccatives, not verdet nor orpiment , for they cause the gold to die. It will
 other desiccatives, not verdet nor orpiment, for they cause the gold to die. It will be dry soon. However, if the
 & the beard, for these three things make strong resemblance. Gemstones You need to pestle your materials in a mortar of
 You need to pestle your materials in a mortar of thick glass & encased & stuck with mastic into another mortar of
 a mortar of thick glass & encased & stuck with mastic into another mortar of wood, in order that it does
 & encased & stuck with mastic into another mortar of wood , in order that it does not break. This can
 serve for perfumers. & la t the pestle, also of glass . Mortar of glass and slab of glass for grinding
 & la t the pestle, also of glass. Mortar of glass and slab of glass for grinding Vitrified saltpeter Being melted
 pestle, also of glass. Mortar of glass and slab of glass for grinding Vitrified saltpeter Being melted with pebbles, it makes
 Mortar of glass and slab of glass for grinding Vitrified saltpeter Being melted with pebbles, it makes the glass very white.
 slab of glass for grinding Vitrified saltpeter Being melted with pebbles , it makes the glass very white. But before, one
 grinding Vitrified saltpeter Being melted with pebbles, it makes the glass very white. But before, one needs to calcine it on
 from the vapor, mix it with as much of the white calcined pebbles . It is true that, in the little furnace, it
 the little furnace, it does not clarify well. But for large panes of glass , it makes the glass very clear & white &
 well. But for large panes of glass, it makes the glass very clear & white & clean. Windows that the sun
 Windows that the sun will not pass Take the aforesaid calcined saltpeter & expose it to a humid air or place, and
 rather, it will give shade. One needs to put the saltpeter on some clean thing place & it put glowing charcoals
 burns. It also serves for melting & for adding to alkali salt for cleaning hands. Gemstones Take white pebbles that are found
 melting & for adding to alkali salt for cleaning hands. Gemstones Take white pebbles that are found by the rivers &
 for adding to alkali salt for cleaning hands. Gemstones Take white pebbles that are found by the rivers & among the sand bank & paths, which are somewhat transparent , & if they are perfectly transparent it will be
 times in your four à vent, & extinguish them in water or vinegar. Next, take a ℥ of them and pestle
 your four à vent, & extinguish them in water or vinegar . Next, take a ℥ of them and pestle them
 ℥ of them and pestle them in a totally pure copper mortar & with a pestle of pure copper, and grind
 totally pure copper mortar & with a pestle of pure copper , and grind them until they become very fine &
 is a sign that they have taken the substance of copper , enough for giving them greenness. At that time, on
 giving them greenness. At that time, on your ℥ of pebbles , put in three ℥ of good minium, not adulterated
 on your ℥ of pebbles, put in three ℥ of good minium, not adulterated by brick & anything else, and grind everything together again very well
 else, and grind everything together again very well in a bronze mortar. And on all of this, put in a gros
 all of this, put in a gros pour ℥ of sel de verre ; & some & the common people put in e
 verre; & some & the common people put in e sandiver that they find at the glassmakers' or apothecaries'. But alkali
 sandiver that they find at the glassmakers' or apothecaries'. But alkali salt , as you know, is better. In this way, the
 know, is better. In this way, the common people make emeralds & cast in sand. If you do not have a
 this way, the common people make emeralds & cast in sand . If you do not have a bronze mortar, grind
 & cast in sand. If you do not have a bronze mortar, grind with a mort in a kettle of pure
 mortar, grind with a mort in a kettle of pure copper . One needs to reheat crucibles before putting in materials,
 made in an hour & a half. A gros of salt on the four ℥ of pebbles & minium. When one
 half. A gros of salt on the four ℥ of pebbles & minium. When one says, for ℥, this is to
 gros of salt on the four ℥ of pebbles & minium . When one says, for ℥, this is to be
 on one ℥ of the body, & not of the salts & the minium. Emerald For ruby take gold leaf Raise
 of the body, & not of the salts & the minium . Emerald For ruby take gold leaf Raise your furnace
 the body, & not of the salts & the minium. Emerald For ruby take gold leaf Raise your furnace by two
 & not of the salts & the minium. Emerald For ruby take gold leaf Raise your furnace by two tiles all
 of the salts & the minium. Emerald For ruby take gold leaf Raise your furnace by two tiles all around, because one
 tiles all around, because one needs more heat for making rubies than for emeralds. And take one ℥ of white calcined
 because one needs more heat for making rubies than for emeralds . And take one ℥ of white calcined pebbles and
 making rubies than for emeralds. And take one ℥ of white calcined pebbles and put it in a mortar of glass, & having
 white calcined pebbles and put it in a mortar of glass , & having ground it coarsely with the pestle of
 same, mix in grain the weight of a grain of gold leaf of what the painters gild, & grind Some say that,
 of a grain of gold leaf of what the painters gild , & grind Some say that, mixing the gold with
 the painters gild, & grind Some say that, mixing the gold with the pebbles and the saltpeter, it makes the color
 & grind Some say that, mixing the gold with the pebbles and the saltpeter, it makes the color of a peach
 say that, mixing the gold with the pebbles and the saltpeter , it makes the color of a peach tree. Others
 peach tree. Others say that it is necessary that the gold be cemented several times, then beaten into leaf. n again
 n again very well, then add in iii ℥ of minium , & pestle well again all together, & put it
 of it, it only returned a yellow mass, as is vitrified minium alone, & some grains of gold in a mass at
 mass, as is vitrified minium alone, & some grains of gold in a mass at the bottom. Try cemented gold and
 of gold in a mass at the bottom. Try cemented gold and accompanied with antimony. If you need greater heat, plie
 mass at the bottom. Try cemented gold and accompanied with antimony . If you need greater heat, plie put, on the
 tiles, one against the other, for making the heat reverberate. Topaz The same dose is observed for all gemstones, namely one
 heat reverberate. Topaz The same dose is observed for all gemstones , namely one weight of calcined pebbles on three of
 dose is observed for all gemstones, namely one weight of calcined pebbles on three of minium, pestling all separately in a copper
 gemstones, namely one weight of calcined pebbles on three of minium , pestling all separately in a copper mortar for emerald
 pebbles on three of minium, pestling all separately in a copper mortar for emerald & in an iron mortar for making
 of minium, pestling all separately in a copper mortar for emerald & in an iron mortar for making topaz or amber
 separately in a copper mortar for emerald & in an iron mortar for making topaz or amber color, with pestles identical
 mortar for emerald & in an iron mortar for making topaz or amber color, with pestles identical to the mortars. The
 emerald & in an iron mortar for making topaz or amber color, with pestles identical to the mortars. The emerald &
 or amber color, with pestles identical to the mortars. The emerald & the topaz are of the same heat, & for
 with pestles identical to the mortars. The emerald & the topaz are of the same heat, & for an hour &
 a half on the fire, for they could burn. The ruby en wants more time & more fire & colored with
 en wants more time & more fire & colored with gold leaf . I believe that pumice stone or firestone for the
 more fire & colored with gold leaf. I believe that pumice stone or firestone for the ruby would be better. See the
 colored with gold leaf. I believe that pumice stone or firestone for the ruby would be better. See the enamels. Try
 leaf. I believe that pumice stone or firestone for the ruby would be better. See the enamels. Try also mixing, in
 or firestone for the ruby would be better. See the enamels . Try also mixing, in place of pebbles, pieces of
 better. See the enamels. Try also mixing, in place of pebbles , pieces of colored glass or enamels. If the mass
 enamels. Try also mixing, in place of pebbles, pieces of colored glass or enamels. If the mass is not colored enough, pestle
 mixing, in place of pebbles, pieces of colored glass or enamels . If the mass is not colored enough, pestle it
 mass is not colored enough, pestle it more in the iron mortar. Slightly burnt tartar mixed among this makes beautiful yellow,
 not colored enough, pestle it more in the iron mortar. Slightly burnt tartar mixed among this makes beautiful yellow, but one hardly needs
 this makes beautiful yellow, but one hardly needs any. The arene also makes it more yellow. Salt for melting Mix saltpeter
 hardly needs any. The arene also makes it more yellow. Salt for melting Mix saltpeter & common salt, and melt them
 arene also makes it more yellow. Salt for melting Mix saltpeter & common salt, and melt them together, & cast on
 makes it more yellow. Salt for melting Mix saltpeter & common salt , and melt them together, & cast on melted copper
 & common salt, and melt them together, & cast on melted copper or ch in a bath, & it purifies & makes
 makes it run marvellously. First, one ought to decrepitate the common salt , that is to say holding it over a good
 in a four à vent. And cast it neatly on marble , then pestle it & grind it very finely, then
 finely, then put it in a crucible on as much saltpeter & let it boil, & mix them together until It
 boil, & mix them together until It cleans & purifies metal well. the crucible will be red. Next, cast it on
 well. the crucible will be red. Next, cast it on marble , and you will have a substance white, hard &
 you will have a substance white, hard & even, like alabaster , with which you will be able to cast medals
 you will be able to cast medals which will resemble marble , but keep them out of the humidity. Jacinth Is
 will resemble marble, but keep them out of the humidity. Jacinth Is made like ruby, with gold, but one does not
 keep them out of the humidity. Jacinth Is made like ruby , with gold, but one does not need such a
 out of the humidity. Jacinth Is made like ruby, with gold , but one does not need such a great fire.
 but one does not need such a great fire. The ruby wants fire for a whole day, and if it does
 red veins. Always heat up your crucibles. One holds that rubified antimony makes jacinth. Topaz I melted one part of pumice stone,
 heat up your crucibles. One holds that rubified antimony makes jacinth . Topaz I melted one part of pumice stone, calcined
 up your crucibles. One holds that rubified antimony makes jacinth. Topaz I melted one part of pumice stone, calcined & pulverized,
 rubified antimony makes jacinth. Topaz I melted one part of pumice stone, calcined & pulverized, & tr with three parts of minium , and the stone pulverized in a steel ver f
 stone, calcined & pulverized, & tr with three parts of minium , and the stone pulverized in a steel ver f
 pulverized, & tr with three parts of minium, and the stone pulverized in a steel ver f mortar. It returned me a
 three parts of minium, and the stone pulverized in a steel ver f mortar. It returned me a very beautiful yellow
 I believe it would be better to le pulverize the pumice in a glass mortar, because it & the minium make
 would be better to le pulverize the pumice in a glass mortar, because it & the minium make enough yellow by
 the pumice in a glass mortar, because it & the minium make enough yellow by themselves. It returned to me a
 top a beautiful yellow, as was said, the bottom like firestone , without transparency. With which, by mixing other Varnish The
 bottom like firestone, without transparency. With which, by mixing other Varnish The Germans make minium boil well in linseed oil, &
 transparency. With which, by mixing other Varnish The Germans make minium boil well in linseed oil, & to give it the
 mixing other Varnish The Germans make minium boil well in linseed oil , & to give it the body of varnish, they
 in linseed oil, & to give it the body of varnish , they mix in thoroughly pulverized yellow amber. Gum ammoniac
 to give it the body of varnish, they mix in thoroughly pulverized yellow amber . Gum ammoniac One puts it in small pieces into
 body of varnish, they mix in thoroughly pulverized yellow amber. Gum ammoniac One puts it in small pieces into a little good
 One puts it in small pieces into a little good vinegar , & one heats, then one passes it through a
 heats, then one passes it through a cloth strainer. All medicinal gums dissolve in vinegar. Provisions for the work of Colchis 7
 it through a cloth strainer. All medicinal gums dissolve in vinegar . Provisions for the work of Colchis 7 retorts 2
 for the work of Colchis 7 retorts 2 lb of ☿ One measure of coarse salt 6 terrines without lead 2
 Colchis 7 retorts 2 lb of ☿ One measure of coarse salt 6 terrines without lead 2 large unleaded pots for calcining
 of ☿ One measure of coarse salt 6 terrines without lead 2 large unleaded pots for calcining 2 alembics for distilling
 measure of coarse salt 6 terrines without lead 2 large unleaded pots for calcining 2 alembics for distilling vinegar 4 pots
 2 large unleaded pots for calcining 2 alembics for distilling vinegar 4 pots of good vinegar 3 or 4 lamps 2
 for calcining 2 alembics for distilling vinegar 4 pots of good vinegar 3 or 4 lamps 2 lb of cotton One pair
 of good vinegar 3 or 4 lamps 2 lb of cotton One pair of small scissors For the furnace A coffer
 of small scissors For the furnace A coffer with a stone ten square thumbs in size and one foot thick, pierced
 size and one foot thick, pierced in the middle 2 earthenware boxes or pots with a lid 2 small pipes of
 boxes or pots with a lid 2 small pipes of fer blanc to evacuate the smoke from the furnace Rapeseed oil for
 lid 2 small pipes of fer blanc to evacuate the smoke from the furnace Rapeseed oil for the lamps to heat
 of fer blanc to evacuate the smoke from the furnace Rapeseed oil for the lamps to heat the furnace A fire-steel Ciment
 oil for the lamps to heat the furnace A fire-steel Ciment royal One lb & a half of vitriol As much saltpeter
 A fire-steel Ciment royal One lb & a half of vitriol As much saltpeter As much rock alum Glass vessels The
 royal One lb & a half of vitriol As much saltpeter As much rock alum Glass vessels The glass vessel must
 & a half of vitriol As much saltpeter As much rock alum Glass vessels The glass vessel must be made like a
 half of vitriol As much saltpeter As much rock alum Glass vessels The glass vessel must be made like a pear
 As much saltpeter As much rock alum Glass vessels The glass vessel must be made like a pear or round pyramid,
 Thus of a height of seven fingers’ width. Painting on crystal or glass They paint in oil without lines, except for
 a height of seven fingers’ width. Painting on crystal or glass They paint in oil without lines, except for the faces
 fingers’ width. Painting on crystal or glass They paint in oil without lines, except for the faces where they trace the
 color. And as for the ground, they make it with azur d’Acre for more beauty, or with lake for a quickly-done red,
 make it with azur d’Acre for more beauty, or with lake for a quickly-done red, or with dragon’s blood for the
 beauty, or with lake for a quickly-done red, or with dragon’s blood for the most beauty. But one needs to layer it
 thus for other colors. Next, they put underneath it a foil backing for topaz, or one of gold or silver . Infusion of anthos or rosemary In the month of
 colors. Next, they put underneath it a foil backing for topaz , or one of gold or silver. Infusion of anthos
 underneath it a foil backing for topaz, or one of gold or silver. Infusion of anthos or rosemary In the month
 a foil backing for topaz, or one of gold or silver . Infusion of anthos or rosemary In the month of
 for topaz, or one of gold or silver. Infusion of anthos or rosemary In the month of August, the flower is
 or one of gold or silver. Infusion of anthos or rosemary In the month of August, the flower is better cooked
 the flower is better cooked & more suitable for making oil . Take of it whatever quantity you like, and put
 the shade for a day. Then put in it the first substance of wine , & leave it to rest three or four days,
 the whole into another vessel, & into this very same substance of wine , put in seven or eight infusions of new flowers.
 through an alembic. Ne And take ii ounces of this water in two or three spoonfuls of white wine, but this
 ounces of this water in two or three spoonfuls of white wine , but this is for the elderly. Paul III used
 this is for the elderly. Paul III used it. Cast Tin comes out better being thin & fine rather than thick,
 Therefore, if you want to mold a thick piece in tin , mold it only on one side & with a
 it more neat, and then you will be able to solder two halves together. But if you must mold it thick,
 around the figure, in this way. Against burns, excellent Heat linseed oil on a gentle fire without letting it boil & simmer,
 is hot, put in a quarter as much of the newest wax you can. Once melted, let it cool, & once they
 & once they begin to curdle, stir continuously with a new wooden spatula t for as long as it takes you to
 paternoster, and as you say them, wash this composition with holy water , stirring all the while. Having said the first 9
 while. Having said the first 9 paternoster, pour out the first water & put in new one, & wash & stir the
 long as 7, & thus you will consecutively until add new water , doing the same as above, until the last &
 & single paternoster of nine. Then you shall have a soft & white ointment , with which you shall anoint the burn for the
 day, & each time you shall wash your face with water & wine mixed together, a little tepid, not rubbing, but
 each time you shall wash your face with water & wine mixed together, a little tepid, not rubbing, but as if
 aff with a fine linen cloth, & next put the ointment , over which you can put ivy leaves. This causes
 & next put the ointment, over which you can put ivy leaves . This causes hair to regrow & leaves no scar.
 for them, who not particularly hold this office. And melting pitch in water & leaving it to soak, they rub the
 who not particularly hold this office. And melting pitch in water & leaving it to soak, they rub the dogs with
 leaving it to soak, they rub the dogs with that water , or else with water of sublimate. Enema In order
 they rub the dogs with that water, or else with water of sublimate . Enema In order that the tube does not harm,
 covers the end of the tube with a piece of chicken gut , & one folds it back over the end, &
 end, & in this way, one gives the enema. Cast Tin retracts when it is thick, thus it is best to
 thin & to make two pieces out of one, then solder them if need be. One uses a strong piece of
 them if need be. One uses a strong piece of taffeta to sieve the fine sand with which one first covers
 One uses a strong piece of taffeta to sieve the fine sand with which one first covers the medal to the thickness
 the thickness of a teston. For making colors run Mix vinegar with a little with bile & put it p into
 For making colors run Mix vinegar with a little with bile & put it p into a glass bottle, & if
 a little with bile & put it p into a glass bottle, & if you want to keep it for a
 want to keep it for a long time, add some salt to it; & of this, mix some of it among
 it among your colors, & that will make them run. Earwax If you take enough with the tip of an ear
 of an ear picker & you pass it through the foam of urine , which is readily made by those who have a
 readily made by those who have a headache, all the foam will dissipate. Enamels For recognizing well their difference and their
 those who have a headache, all the foam will dissipate. Enamels For recognizing well their difference and their true color by
 by candlelight, you need to put your candle behind a crystal mirror or a glass globe or jar full of water,
 to put your candle behind a crystal mirror or a glass globe or jar full of water, because this light is
 crystal mirror or a glass globe or jar full of water , because this light is like sunlight. For eating away
 is like sunlight. For eating away and dissolving entirely pure gold ℞ put common salt into aquafortis in a matrass, and
 For eating away and dissolving entirely pure gold ℞ put common salt into aquafortis in a matrass, and let it rest two
 and dissolving entirely pure gold ℞ put common salt into aquafortis in a matrass, and let it rest two hours without
 putting it on the fire. Put in the very thin gold , and draw it out as if it had been
 draw it out as if it had been parted from silver . For etching on iron One ℥ of verdet, ii
 if it had been parted from silver. For etching on iron One ℥ of verdet, ii ℥ of coarse salt &
 parted from silver. For etching on iron One ℥ of verdet , ii ℥ of coarse salt & a little sublimate,
 etching on iron One ℥ of verdet, ii ℥ of coarse salt & a little sublimate, or else grind massicot with linseed
 of verdet, ii ℥ of coarse salt & a little sublimate , or else grind massicot with linseed oil, and u
 of coarse salt & a little sublimate, or else grind massicot with linseed oil, and u cover ce the quite clean
 salt & a little sublimate, or else grind massicot with linseed oil , and u cover ce the quite clean & polished
 grind massicot with linseed oil, and u cover ce the quite clean & polished blade or iron with it, & let dry in the fire or in
 what you please. Then, to etch it & make the water , take a liard’s worth of verdet, & put in
 it & make the water, take a liard’s worth of verdet , & put in twice as much coarse salt, &
 liard’s worth of verdet, & put in twice as much coarse salt , & about four grains of sal ammoniac, & six
 twice as much coarse salt, & about four grains of sal ammoniac , & six grains of sublimate, & the water ought
 about four grains of sal ammoniac, & six grains of sublimate , & the water ought not to be hot. Good
 of sal ammoniac, & six grains of sublimate, & the water ought not to be hot. Good mixture to color gold
 ought not to be hot. Good mixture to color gold Sulfur & small gravel, as much of one as of the
 be hot. Good mixture to color gold Sulfur & small gravel , as much of one as of the other, &
 as of the other, & the third part of soufr salt , & as much terra merita as sulfur. For gilding
 & the third part of soufr salt, & as much terra merita as sulfur. For gilding with silver on copper and latten
 part of soufr salt, & as much terra merita as sulfur . For gilding with silver on copper and latten Soften
 & as much terra merita as sulfur. For gilding with silver on copper and latten Soften the silver like the gold,
 much terra merita as sulfur. For gilding with silver on copper and latten Soften the silver like the gold, & apply
 merita as sulfur. For gilding with silver on copper and latten Soften the silver like the gold, & apply it as
 For gilding with silver on copper and latten Soften the silver like the gold, & apply it as if you wanted
 silver on copper and latten Soften the silver like the gold , & apply it as if you wanted to gild.
 the gold, & apply it as if you wanted to gild . And do not let it heat, so the silver
 to gild. And do not let it heat, so the silver does not tarnish. And after it is well applied, boil
 tarnish. And after it is well applied, boil it in walnut oil , & next heat it a little, & thrust it
 & next heat it a little, & thrust it in sweet boutteure . Enameling a cornaline Soak some wheat flower in white
 heat it a little, & thrust it in sweet boutteure. Enameling a cornaline Soak some wheat flower in white wine, then
 a little, & thrust it in sweet boutteure. Enameling a cornaline Soak some wheat flower in white wine, then besmear &
 thrust it in sweet boutteure. Enameling a cornaline Soak some wheat flower in white wine, then besmear & cover the whole cornaline
 sweet boutteure. Enameling a cornaline Soak some wheat flower in white wine , then besmear & cover the whole cornaline with it.
 flower in white wine, then besmear & cover the whole cornaline with it. And bring the violet kind to heat again,
 kind to heat again, next put it to temper in white wine for one or two hours, then scratch it & leave
 more on top. Against dogs’ mange Half an ℥ of stavesacre for common dogs, & one ℥ for big ones, as
 ℥ for big ones, as fine powder beaten with two egg oil whites & one quarteron of oil. Make them drink on an
 for big ones, as fine powder beaten with two egg oil whites & one quarteron of oil. Make them drink on
 beaten with two egg oil whites & one quarteron of oil . Make them drink on an empty stomach, having kept
 which will not release & is big, mold it with wax , either in hollow or in relief, because it is
 the piece without leaving anything. But take heed that the melted wax be neither too hot nor too cold. Some mold with
 be neither too hot nor too cold. Some mold with wax heated in hot water, but in pressing, the mold becomes
 hot nor too cold. Some mold with wax heated in hot water , but in pressing, the mold becomes clumsy & makes
 clumsy & makes itself false. When you have the hollow wax form, you can cast in some very soft clay &
 have the hollow wax form, you can cast in some very soft clay & thoroughly moistened & clear, & let it dry at
 you will make a hollow form on it ave of lead or tin, in tu which what you will form will
 make a hollow form on it ave of lead or tin , in tu which what you will form will be
 it is scales of pure silver & of gilt silver with which one makes the archers’ haquetons. Spinet playing by
 surrounded with wheels pierced all around the edge, and attach quills as for a cittern or a spinet, & arrange them
 overturned shell near the tail nor the notches. Drying colors Soot black & others would not dry in oil if one did
 Drying colors Soot black & others would not dry in oil if one did not put verdigris with it. Painter Colors
 would not dry in oil if one did not put verdigris with it. Painter Colors laid down twice are thicker in
 themselves, if they are not managed. Otherwise, one paints on wood , otherwise on canvas, otherwise on walls. Gardening For shield
 are not managed. Otherwise, one paints on wood, otherwise on canvas , otherwise on walls. Gardening For shield grafting, one needs
 sprout, bind it well & wrap it entirely with a slip of linen or very soft thread, so that there is nothing uncovered
 & wrap it entirely with a slip of linen or very soft thread , so that there is nothing uncovered but the leaf,
 than those by cleft. Nightingale It is necessary that the iron wire of its cage be of the thickest, in order
 the hand & opening its beak, & with a small wooden pin, put it in its throat & make it swallow.
 is put in the cage, one needs to give it ants with soil at the bottom of the cage, to make it accustomed
 make it accustomed to pecking puys luy, and give it chopped sheep’s heart & immediately some eggs & mealworms. Fountain maker As you
 luy, and give it chopped sheep’s heart & immediately some eggs & mealworms. Fountain maker As you will see below in
 give it chopped sheep’s heart & immediately some eggs & mealworms . Fountain maker As you will see below in the
 you will see below in the discussion of the molder, reheated plaster promptly mixed into water & put on the joints of
 the discussion of the molder, reheated plaster promptly mixed into water & put on the joints of the conduits of fountains
 the conduits of fountains s resists as much as any stucco . Catching nightingales See the 15th folio after this For
 shaded places, are more appropriate for taking them. For casting Aspalte is, which is found in Germany , is the most excellent sand one can find for
 casting Aspalte is, which is found in Germany, is the most excellent sand one can find for molding in a frame , because it is appropriate for silver & for gold,
 for molding in a frame, because it is appropriate for silver & for gold, & the more you use it and
 a frame, because it is appropriate for silver & for gold , & the more you use it and the older
 is. One molds in it very thinly & finely. Making gold run for casting Because gold cools down very quickly, one
 very thinly & finely. Making gold run for casting Because gold cools down very quickly, one ought to give it a
 melted q it is well melted which maintains the heat. Sublimate softens it nicely. But, because it goes up in smoke,
 Sublimate softens it nicely. But, because it goes up in smoke , it does not continue to help. Therefore, mix this
 sal ammoniac , the best verdet that you can find, a little
 sal ammoniac, the best verdet that you can find, a little borax & saltpeter qui
 ammoniac, the best verdet that you can find, a little borax & saltpeter qui li. And this, by keeping it warm,
 best verdet that you can find, a little borax & saltpeter qui li. And this, by keeping it warm, it will
 this, by keeping it warm, it will come out neatly. Saltpeter clarifies it & p heats it. But the most important
 But the most important thing in this mixture is the verdet , which has to be good. This mixture softens the
 verdet, which has to be good. This mixture softens the gold qui so much that it becomes treatable like lead, even
 the gold qui so much that it becomes treatable like lead , even fine gold. For sand for molding flowers &
 qui so much that it becomes treatable like lead, even fine gold . For sand for molding flowers & leaves & delicate
 that it becomes treatable like lead, even fine gold. For sand for molding flowers & leaves & delicate things , mix in ground raw plaster, brick & feather alum.
 for molding flowers & leaves & delicate things, mix in ground raw plaster , brick & feather alum. To moisten sands, eau-de-vie is
 & leaves & delicate things, mix in ground raw plaster, brick & feather alum. To moisten sands, eau-de-vie is excellent, for
 & delicate things, mix in ground raw plaster, brick & feather alum . To moisten sands, eau-de-vie is excellent, for it grinds
 in ground raw plaster, brick & feather alum. To moisten sands , eau-de-vie is excellent, for it grinds the sand finely
 ground raw plaster, brick & feather alum. To moisten sands, eau-de-vie is excellent, for it grinds the sand finely & evaporates
 To moisten sands, eau-de-vie is excellent, for it grinds the sand finely & evaporates que when one reheats the frames. Sal
 sand finely & evaporates que when one reheats the frames. Sal ammoniac water is very good, is excellent, for moistening sands, but for
 Sal ammoniac water is very good, is excellent, for moistening sands , but for lots of water, one only needs a
 good, is excellent, for moistening sands, but for lots of water , one only needs a little sal ammoniac. A loop
 but for lots of water, one only needs a little sal ammoniac . A loop of iron, for lack of crocum ferri,
 one only needs a little sal ammoniac. A loop of iron , for lack of crocum ferri, is exce good for
 little sal ammoniac. A loop of iron, for lack of crocum ferri , is exce good for gold. The snakes or lizards
 iron, for lack of crocum ferri, is exce good for gold . The snakes or lizards you want to mold should
 thin, and if they are dry il dead, they wither. Plaster of Paris is as firm as stone & very good. When you
 dead, they wither. Plaster of Paris is as firm as stone & very good. When you want to choose some for
 very good. When you want to choose some for your sand , take it raw, the hardest possible & which does
 hard & made of lustrous grains nearing the shape of sugar . Finally, to mix some into the sand to cast
 the shape of sugar. Finally, to mix some into the sand to cast gold, it is necessary that it endures the
 sugar. Finally, to mix some into the sand to cast gold , it is necessary that it endures the fire twice
 endures the fire twice & is reheated twice. + When gold is very fine, it is so dry that it can
 hardly endure a hammer, but this mixture softens it like lead . Casting in gold To cast in gold, il f
 hammer, but this mixture softens it like lead. Casting in gold To cast in gold, il f crocum ferri is necessary,
 softens it like lead. Casting in gold To cast in gold , il f crocum ferri is necessary, & more feather
 lead. Casting in gold To cast in gold, il f crocum ferri is necessary, & more feather alum than in the following
 in gold, il f crocum ferri is necessary, & more feather alum than in the following mixture. The feather alum mixture cannot
 & more feather alum than in the following mixture. The feather alum mixture cannot corrupt anything. The mold needs to be red,
 be red, & one needs to press it promptly with iron presses. The shell of crabs & crayfish are awkward to
 one needs to press it promptly with iron presses. The shell of crabs & crayfish are awkward to burn, & there is a proper fashion
 the mold. The feet are cast in many times pieces. Tiles Tiles with which one covers houses, the hardest & firmest,
 mold. The feet are cast in many times pieces. Tiles Tiles with which one covers houses, the hardest & firmest, and
 one covers houses, the hardest & firmest, and purged of stones & coarse gravel, are used to p mix in with
 the hardest & firmest, and purged of stones & coarse gravel , are used to p mix in with the sand
 coarse gravel, are used to p mix in with the sand et for molding. But, before, it is necessary to heat
 very nice to mold. Those of the houses that are not sandy seem to withstand fire better. Plaster When you have it
 houses that are not sandy seem to withstand fire better. Plaster When you have it as a stone, choose the hardest
 withstand fire better. Plaster When you have it as a stone , choose the hardest bits and those which do not
 with your nail, and clean it well from powder & filth before pestling it. Plaster alone does not withstand fire but
 clean it well from powder & filth before pestling it. Plaster alone does not withstand fire but breaks up into pieces.
 does not withstand fire but breaks up into pieces. Reheated plaster , se ga, as is said here, keeps well one
 must withstand the fire & turn red like a lit charcoal . If the plaster is mixed with some dust or
 fire & turn red like a lit charcoal. If the plaster is mixed with some dust or is not the hard
 a lit charcoal. If the plaster is mixed with some dust or is not the hard kind, it bursts in the
 it bursts in the fire & causes flashing. The hardest plaster , as was said, is the best when it is
 as was said, is the best when it is from stone , therefore take it raw of this kind. Pestle it
 to have any resistance to handlingstirring, as if it were water . Keep stirring it continuously until it returns once again
 it is cooked. But do not reheat it until your brick and feather feather alum are reheated & the clay circles
 But do not reheat it until your brick and feather feather alum are reheated & the clay circles are made. For it
 your brick and feather feather alum are reheated & the clay circles are made. For it needs to be the last
 & when all the rest is ready, for the less plaster # Feather alum is the one that gives good binding
 all the rest is ready, for the less plaster # Feather alum is the one that gives good binding to sand. Crocum
 Feather alum is the one that gives good binding to sand . Crocum ferri is appropriate for gold. It is that
 alum is the one that gives good binding to sand. Crocum ferri is appropriate for gold. It is that one which, being
 gives good binding to sand. Crocum ferri is appropriate for gold . It is that one which, being mixed among the
 gold. It is that one which, being mixed among the sand , receives it & holds it within its warmth. #
 red & overheats, it loses its strength & spoils the sand . Leave it to cool before mixing it with the
 Leave it to cool before mixing it with the other sands . And when it is cold, mix and mold, for
 by hand, provided that it is covered by a thick woollen cloth, for the teeth of the snake stay in the
 the cloth & cannot pierce like they would with a linen . The dangerous ones are recognized by their blue &
 hardly ever bite in water, which crayfish catchers experience. The sand mixture is of two parts of plaster, pulverized & reheated
 catchers experience. The sand mixture is of two parts of plaster, pulverized & reheated as said, & of one part of tile, reddened et
 pulverized & reheated as said, & of one part of tile , reddened et p pre in a good fire after
 after the first cooking & then finely pulverized, and of feather alum , half as much as of the brick, namely two
 and of feather alum, half as much as of the brick , namely two full crucibles of plaster, one of brick
 much as of the brick, namely two full crucibles of plaster , one of brick & a half of feather alum.
 the brick, namely two full crucibles of plaster, one of brick & a half of feather alum. There can never be
 crucibles of plaster, one of brick & a half of feather alum . There can never be too much feather alum, for
 half of feather alum. There can never be too much feather alum , for s this is what gives bond to the
 alum, for s this is what gives bond to the sand , and because it does not burn, it makes sand
 the sand, and because it does not burn, it makes sand withstand the fire without cracking & bursting. Otherwise, without it,
 the fire without cracking & bursting. Otherwise, without it, the sand would not withstand it. This sand, thus composed, is proper
 Otherwise, without it, the sand would not withstand it. This sand , thus composed, is proper for all metals, but if
 withstand it. This sand, thus composed, is proper for all metals , but if you want to use it for gold,
 all metals, but if you want to use it for gold , one needs more feather alum & than the aforesaid
 you want to use it for gold, one needs more feather alum & than the aforesaid composition, and mix in some crocum
 alum & than the aforesaid composition, and mix in some crocum ferri . For it is this one that attracts gold. It
 some crocum ferri. For it is this one that attracts gold . It is necessary that all sand with which you
 this one that attracts gold. It is necessary that all sand with which you want to cast well, withstands the fire
 it withstands abon c a great firing without getting spoiled. Feather alum is awkward to pestle, and it does not pass through
 the sieve. Thus, one needs to grind it finely on marble . And the white one que v in powder that
 Thus, one needs to grind it finely on marble. And the white one que v in powder that apothecaries sell is good. It is ground better su in the mortar
 dragging the pestle, thus you will render it very fine. Crocum ferri must be set ablaze in a glassmaker’s fournaise for four
 them, but before one needs to dip them well into water in which the twice reheated things dissolve easily. Otherwise, you
 f to release your work without danger of spoiling it. Good feather alum is white and has a luster as of white c
 feather alum is white and has a luster as of white c silk . It is in pieces long as a finger, &
 as a finger, & is very breakable & wooly as down . The one made of stone is harder & not
 very breakable & wooly as down. The one made of stone is harder & not so good. Il The best of
 the aforesaid quality is fetched in France, near Rouan. The feather alum for our sand is pestled in a mortar and is
 fetched in France, near Rouan. The feather alum for our sand is pestled in a mortar and is further ground on
 is pestled in a mortar and is further ground on marble , especially since one cannot think of passing it finely
 soft qui & thin filaments, which gives binding to the sand in a much more excellent fashion than cloth shearings in
 to the sand in a much more excellent fashion than cloth shearings in the founder’s earth of the founders of great works,
 a much more excellent fashion than cloth shearings in the founder’s earth of the founders of great works , because these cloth shearings & cloth waste burn and
 founder’s earth of the founders of great works, because these cloth shearings & cloth waste burn and feather alum resists the fire.
 the founders of great works, because these cloth shearings & cloth waste burn and feather alum resists the fire. To enclose the
 works, because these cloth shearings & cloth waste burn and feather alum resists the fire. To enclose the molds, when you em
 when you em throw onto the things to mold your liquid sand , make your a circle & surround with well beaten
 sand, make your a circle & surround with well beaten fatty earth . Archanum omnibus fere reconditum est in re fusoria, utvidelicet
 re fusoria, utvidelicet res exprimenda formis, sive herba sit sive animal ut lucerta, in af inting inmergatur primum in vini spiritum
 utvidelicet res exprimenda formis, sive herba sit sive animal ut lucerta , in af inting inmergatur primum in vini spiritum aprime
 sive animal ut lucerta, in af inting inmergatur primum in vini spiritum aprime rectificatum, deinde pulvere composito aspergatur sive illinatur (si pulvis
 ought to make the core of several pieces. Test whether distilled vinegar is appropriate for eating away & dissolving what will be
 in the animal molded hollow. If you know that your plaster is not strong enough to withstand the fire without cracking,
 that sometimes you mecties would not diminish the quantity of feather alum la little bit, for it softens the molds with its
 neatness of the cast & gives more binding. When the sand mold, estant having set, retains the color of brick and
 the sand mold, estant having set, retains the color of brick and is reddish, it is firmer. To hold the cores,
 reddish, it is firmer. To hold the cores, some use wire of the same metal that they cast because it reduces with & melts with
 the core changes, some find it better to r use iron wire , sharpened at the ends, because it holds firmer &
 than a point of a needle. And one can apply gold or silver before using it for a work. If it
 point of a needle. And one can apply gold or silver before using it for a work. If it makes a
 makes a hole, one covers it with a small chisel. Eau-de-vie prevents the sand from becoming porous & does not make
 one covers it with a small chisel. Eau-de-vie prevents the sand from becoming porous & does not make little holes on
 but at the edges, which are thinner. One casts with common silver , with which goldsmiths commonly work, which alloys indifferently Et
 indifferently Et que. And when one were to cast with solder , it would run even better. Spat is a whitish
 were to cast with solder, it would run even better. Spat is a whitish stone which can be found in Germany,
 with solder, it would run even better. Spat is a whitish stone which can be found in Germany, & mainly in Augsburg,
 in Germany, & mainly in Augsburg, which one uses for the most excellent sand that can be found for lead , tin, copper, silver & gold. And the more it
 for the most excellent sand that can be found for lead , tin, copper, silver & gold. And the more it
 the most excellent sand that can be found for lead, tin , copper, silver & gold. And the more it is
 most excellent sand that can be found for lead, tin, copper , silver & gold. And the more it is used,
 excellent sand that can be found for lead, tin, copper, silver & gold. And the more it is used, the better
 that can be found for lead, tin, copper, silver & gold . And the more it is used, the better it
 the fire as well as the aforesaid one made with plaster . The shreds of cui thick, greasy leather are pgood
 aforesaid one made with plaster. The shreds of cui thick, greasy leather are pgood to cast in the molten copper and latten,
 cui thick, greasy leather are pgood to cast in the molten copper and latten , for it cleans it & removes from it all
 for it cleans it & removes from it all its filth . Spalt Spalt is white like cooked plaster and can
 it cleans it & removes from it all its filth. Spalt Spalt is white like cooked plaster and can be found
 cleans it & removes from it all its filth. Spalt Spalt is white like cooked plaster and can be found in
 from it all its filth. Spalt Spalt is white like cooked plaster and can be found in mounds and stones formed in
 like cooked plaster and can be found in mounds and stones formed in long scales & long veins. It is very
 one can scrape it, & makes a powder like our chalk from Champagne . And because everything which comes from the earth is
 from the quarry, quite coarsely, then one mixes it with sal ammoniac water . By putting in a piece the size of a
 the size of a walnut in a large bottle of water , and thus one mixes it & reduces it into
 and thus one mixes it & reduces it into p small stones , purging it of its impurities. Then, one puts it
 & reduces it into psmall stones, purging it of its impurities . Then, one puts it to cook neatly in a
 the pots are cooked. Next, one mixes it again with sal ammoniac water & one grinds it very well, and one empties the
 & one grinds it very well, and one empties the muddy & clean water into a separate vessel. Again, one puts the same water
 water into a separate vessel. Again, one puts the same water on top & one grinds, & again one puts the
 on top & one grinds, & again one puts the muddy water with the other. And one does thus, until it has
 renders it very fine & handleable. Having taken away the water by tilting it or with a sponge, one takes the
 and one dries it. Then, moistening it with the aforesaid water , like one does with the other water sand, one
 with the aforesaid water, like one does with the other water sand, one uses it in a frame, where, if it
 the aforesaid water, like one does with the other water sand , one uses it in a frame, where, if it
 reheat it further. This one is appropriate for molding all metals , and especially gold & silver, and the more it
 This one is appropriate for molding all metals, and especially gold & silver, and the more it is used, the better
 is appropriate for molding all metals, and especially gold & silver , and the more it is used, the better it
 needs to set aside the one in which you cast lead or tin, for it would sour the gold you would
 set aside the one in which you cast lead or tin , for it would sour the gold you would cast
 you cast lead or tin, for it would sour the gold you would cast in it. Feather alum should be reheated
 it would sour the gold you would cast in it. Feather alum should be reheated in a cauldron crucible covered with a
 should be reheated in a cauldron crucible covered with a tile in a strong flame fire of charcoals, in order that
 a strong flame fire of charcoals, in order that the impurity which could be there burns with the feather alum, which
 that the impurity which could be there burns with the feather alum , which does not burn. This is done either in
 This is done either in the goldsmith’s forge, surrounded with bricks , or in a fourneau à vent with fusion fire,
 remains white & better dried out. # # After your feather alum is cooled, pestle it in a mortar, then grind it
 cooled, pestle it in a mortar, then grind it on marble , and it will be rendered into very fine wooly
 into very fine wooly filaments which give bond to the sand without getting burned as other things do, which is a
 it thus, in the mortar, dragging the pestle, than on marble , for where c it spreads, & in the mortar,
 sides. Render it very fine & soft to the touch. Clay , to make circles around molds, should be very fatty
 and beat very well, & moisten it moderately with some water , & keep it in a pit or in a
 numerous holes with a stick in it, which fill with water , in order to keep it always fresh & soft,
 always ready to use when you need it. Modeling in wax When wax is too hard, one mixes in turpentine or
 to use when you need it. Modeling in wax When wax is too hard, one mixes in turpentine or a little
 in wax When wax is too hard, one mixes in turpentine or a little butter, which sont pl renders the wax
 is too hard, one mixes in turpentine or a little butter , which sont pl renders the wax more amiable and
 turpentine or a little butter, which sont pl renders the wax more amiable and more appropriate than the tallow that the
 renders the wax more amiable and more appropriate than the tallow that the Italians put in, because one often has to
 put the tools in the mouth, which are better in boxwood or bone of hart. Wax for molding - As the
 tools in the mouth, which are better in boxwood or bone of hart . Wax for molding - As the wax is melted,
 mouth, which are better in boxwood or bone of hart. Wax for molding - As the wax is melted, they have
 or bone of hart. Wax for molding - As the wax is melted, they have sulfur that is melted in a
 for molding - As the wax is melted, they have sulfur that is melted in a spoon or crucible, & they
 a spoon or crucible, & they pour some in the melted wax . And going to the bottom or remaining on top,
 And going to the bottom or remaining on top, the sulfur leaves & mixes only its substance amongst the wax &
 the sulfur leaves & mixes only its substance amongst the wax & renders it more meltable when warming it, such that
 that having molded, it melts in the mold gently like butter , without leaving any pustule or bubble in it. Also
 not to give it too strong a fire. If Molding wax In order that your mold grips without repelling in any
 repelling in any place on a shape or image of wax , you need to anoint it with oil and moisten
 or image of wax, you need to anoint it with oil and moisten your sand with lukewarm water, for the cold
 you need to anoint it with oil and moisten your sand with lukewarm water, for the cold water would repel the
 to anoint it with oil and moisten your sand with lukewarm water , for the cold water would repel the oil more
 oil and moisten your sand with lukewarm water, for the cold water would repel the oil more & would not have a
 with lukewarm water, for the cold water would repel the oil more & would not have a good seating on it.
 a good seating on it. Anoint well, very lightly, with oil , so little that it hardly appears. Then, rub with
 so little that it hardly appears. Then, rub with some eau-de-vie . Next, moisten your sand with lukewarm water so that
 hardly appears. Then, rub with some eau-de-vie. Next, moisten your sand with lukewarm water so that it does not repel the
 Then, rub with some eau-de-vie. Next, moisten your sand with lukewarm water so that it does not repel the oil. Bellows of
 with lukewarm water so that it does not repel the oil . Bellows of the forge It is better that they
 eat. You can keep them in a barrel full of bran or even better of earth, in a cool place, or
 in a barrel full of bran or even better of earth , in a cool place, or in a glass bottle.
 better of earth, in a cool place, or in a glass bottle. And give them any live frog or other little
 to mold this vile animal, & if it were to piss in your hand, it would burn your hand & itch,
 remedy for this is to put your hand into fresh earth & to cover it as if you wanted to bury
 Or else, if it is small, put it on a magnet of its size, cut thinly, then put it in good
 magnet of its size, cut thinly, then put it in good vinegar . When it is big, one needs to mold it
 want to make it have an open mouth, put some cotton inside, & then on the cotton some melted wax. Killing
 open mouth, put some cotton inside, & then on the cotton some melted wax. Killing snakes for molding Some put a
 put some cotton inside, & then on the cotton some melted wax . Killing snakes for molding Some put a drop of
 wax. Killing snakes for molding Some put a drop of aquafortis in the mouth, which stuns them well, such that the
 them to death entirely, put it in a bottle of good vinegar & some eau-de-vie. And do thus with lizards & other
 put it in a bottle of good vinegar & some eau-de-vie . And do thus with lizards & other similar beasts.
 them, you can put them in a pipe full of earth in a garden outdoors. But your pipe must be covered
 a garden outdoors. But your pipe must be covered with archal wire , for otherwise it would climb & go up very
 nature, with which you can make four or five molds. Rock & grotto One needs to pestle white & yellow marcasites
 or five molds. Rock & grotto One needs to pestle white & yellow marcasites & diverse kinds of minerals, & then wash them well,
 to pestle white & yellow marcasites & diverse kinds of minerals , & then wash them well, in order that the
 cleaned & there remains only the lustrous grain of the mineral , with which you will sprinkle your rock previously covered
 grain of the mineral, with which you will sprinkle your rock previously covered with strong glue, if your grasse grotto is
 with which you will sprinkle your rock previously covered with strong glue , if your grasse grotto is r not for a
 grotto is r not for a fountain & for touching water , and you will have a nice work. Snakes When
 chance it should bite or expel through its bottom some filth , he would only dig the earth with a knife,
 through its bottom some filth, he would only dig the earth with a knife, & bury his hand in fresh &
 the earth with a knife, & bury his hand in fresh & damp earth , which, when applied fresh en on the infected part,
 better for opening them up than to anoint them with olive oil , & nothing else. And next, when you want to
 next, when you want to unjoin them, soak them in cold water , which is the secret. LAnd you will see that
 which is the secret. LAnd you will see that the oil , although it seems to be imbued, will detach itself,
 imbued, will detach itself, like grease. Molds become stronger in cold water . And hot water would dissolve them awkwardly, although once
 itself, like grease. Molds become stronger in cold water. And hot water would dissolve them awkwardly, although once reheated, they are more
 they are more handleable & easier to dissolve in the water . Wheat oil Is made on a blade of iron
 are more handleable & easier to dissolve in the water. Wheat oil Is made on a blade of iron reddened in the
 the water. Wheat oil Is made on a blade of iron reddened in the fire. And the oil drips off, which
 a blade of iron reddened in the fire. And the oil drips off, which is appropriate for anointing the hair of
 the hair of a butterfly or similar thing, for this oil is instantly dry & makes the remainder dry out. It
 mold be flat, for being upright, it would elevate the sand & become porous. # If you want to mold something
 thickness, more than what is natural, some rub it with butter . But it is best to anoint it with wheat
 with butter. But it is best to anoint it with wheat oil , for it has no body, & does not obstruct
 lineaments as much, and makes the flower firm. Cast of lead and tin Because tin wants to be cast very thinly,
 much, and makes the flower firm. Cast of lead and tin Because tin wants to be cast very thinly, if your
 makes the flower firm. Cast of lead and tin Because tin wants to be cast very thinly, if your medal, plant,
 thin & fine, do it so that there is more tin , much more than lead, namely less than the fourth
 it so that there is more tin, much more than lead , namely less than the fourth part lead for three
 much more than lead, namely less than the fourth part lead for three parts tin. And still, one puts lead only
 namely less than the fourth part lead for three parts tin . And still, one puts lead only to form an
 part lead for three parts tin. And still, one puts lead only to form an alloy. On the contrary, if you
 to mold something strong & thick, put a lot more lead in than tin. And in one & the other you
 strong & thick, put a lot more lead in than tin . And in one & the other you can put
 in one & the other you can put a little looking-glass tin , but only a little, with a little rosin, when
 little looking-glass tin, but only a little, with a little rosin , when you want to cast. Since then, when molding
 when you want to cast. Since then, when molding with fine and new lead , I put into one lb two ounces of fine
 new lead, I put into one lb two ounces of fine tin . And when molding with fine tin, I put in
 lb two ounces of fine tin. And when molding with fine tin , I put in two ounces of fine lead for
 molding with fine tin, I put in two ounces of fine lead for one pound. I made plants & snakes just like
 made plants & snakes just like nature. S I cast tin almost red, and lead the same, which, however, had not
 just like nature. S I cast tin almost red, and lead the same, which, however, had not remained in the fire
 one. Noyau molds readily reheat & frame molds dry out. Latten smoke It is good to reheat in it the molds for
 one. Noyau molds readily reheat & frame molds dry out. Latten smoke It is good to reheat in it the molds
 is good to reheat in it the molds for casting latten , for this gyellow filth, which appears nevertheless to refill
 in it the molds for casting latten, for this g yellow filth , which appears nevertheless to refill the molds, casts very
 molds, casts very neatly, being of the same nature. For red copper When it is melted, it is good to throw in
 is melted, it is good to throw in a little fine tin , for this makes it run. Clay earth This one,
 in a little fine tin, for this makes it run. Clay earth This one, moistened & well beaten & kneaded as you
 place, and make holes in it, and fill them with water to keep it fresh. The gray one is best, which
 at all. It is more appropriate than a blade of lead . Iron wire You also need to have provision of
 all. It is more appropriate than a blade of lead. Iron wire You also need to have provision of different sizes, according
 must make them as long as you have need of. Iron wire is firmer than that of latten. Sal ammoniac wateer The size of
 as you have need of. Iron wire is firmer than that of latten . Sal ammoniac wateer The size of two chestnuts of
 need of. Iron wire is firmer than that of latten. Sal ammoniac wateer The size of two chestnuts of pulverized sal ammoniac suffices
 that of latten. Sal ammoniac wateer The size of two chestnuts of pulverized sal ammoniac suffices in a pot of water,
 latten. Sal ammoniac wateer The size of two chestnuts of pulverized sal ammoniac suffices in a pot of water, and to the tongue,
 chestnuts of pulverized sal ammoniac suffices in a pot of water , and to the tongue, you find the water moderately
 pot of water, and to the tongue, you find the water moderately salty, for too much is not good. Sanguine To
 water, and to the tongue, you find the water moderately salty , for too much is not good. Sanguine To clean
 the water moderately salty, for too much is not good. Sanguine To clean the various colors of lead & tin, one
 is not good. Sanguine To clean the various colors of lead & tin, one pulverizes sanguine, & with some small bristle
 good. Sanguine To clean the various colors of lead & tin , one pulverizes sanguine, & with some small bristle brushes,
 clean the various colors of lead & tin, one pulverizes sanguine , & with some small bristle brushes, one rubs the
 green on the belly, are very appropriate to cast in silver & gold, or other metal, because they have rougher scales
 the belly, are very appropriate to cast in silver & gold , or other metal, because they have rougher scales than
 very appropriate to cast in silver & gold, or other metal , because they have rougher scales than the female lizards
 the female lizards & show better. like pincers Composition of sand Once everything is reheated as said above, take four 4
 reheated as said above, take four 4 full crucibles of plaster , two 2 of brick, & one of feather alum.
 take four 4 full crucibles of plaster, two 2 of brick , & one of feather alum. Do not pass through
 crucibles of plaster, two 2 of brick, & one of feather alum . Do not pass through the sieve to mix may
 not pass through the sieve to mix may because the alum would not pass. Mix with your hands until neither one
 nor red, can be discerned among the other. If your plaster were not strong, do not mix in at all so
 not strong, do not mix in at all so much feather alum , because it softens the molds. Take heed also that
 because it softens the molds. Take heed also that your sand is not hot (since it has immediately been reheated) C
 reheated) C when you will want to mix it with water , for this les makes molds too soft & breakable.
 soft & breakable. You may sometimes diminish the quantity of plaster if you do not find it strong enough to withstand
 if it cracks, & in order that the part of pestled tiles holds up, with the feather alum, which you can also
 that the part of pestled tiles holds up, with the feather alum , which you can also increase so that it creates
 increase so that it creates a better bond. For tempering sand You need to have a big basin full of water
 sand You need to have a big basin full of water to q soak the molds to open them, a flagon
 soak the molds to open them, a flagon full of common water , a lead bowl for tempering your sand, a small
 to open them, a flagon full of common water, a lead bowl for tempering your sand, a small wooden spoon to
 full of common water, a lead bowl for tempering your sand , a small wooden spoon to collect the wetted sand
 water, a lead bowl for tempering your sand, a small wooden spoon to collect the wetted sand in the bowl. The
 tempering your sand, a small wooden spoon to collect the wetted sand in the bowl. The big basin is pour tr To
 basin is pour tr To make handles for your large oil paintbrushes, if you do not have large enough feather quills,
 large oil paintbrushes, if you do not have large enough feather quills, take two of them, & slit them, & join
 them, & slit them, & join them together. Decoction of sands Already mentioned. Molding en noyau. Mixture of sand Having reheated
 Decoction of sands Already mentioned. Molding en noyau. Mixture of sand Having reheated your sand, namely the plaster, the feather alum
 mentioned. Molding en noyau. Mixture of sand Having reheated your sand , namely the plaster, the feather alum & the brick,
 noyau. Mixture of sand Having reheated your sand, namely the plaster , the feather alum & the brick, & having passed
 of sand Having reheated your sand, namely the plaster, the feather alum & the brick, & having passed them finely through the
 your sand, namely the plaster, the feather alum & the brick , & having passed them finely through the sieve, #,
 take four parts of plaster , two of brick, & one of feather alum. Mix
 take four parts of plaster, two of brick , & one of feather alum. Mix them all together
 four parts of plaster, two of brick, & one of feather alum . Mix them all together with your hands that it
 that one cannot discern one from the other. With your sand ready, you need to put to death the animal that
 to mold de, in this manner. # except for the feather alum , which should be ground in a mortar Putting to
 it in taking it. And, having put it in a glass bottle d with bran, or in a barrel full half
 And, having put it in a glass bottle d with bran , or in a barrel full half full of fresh
 with bran, or in a barrel full half full of fresh & damp earth , if you want to store them or keep them
 collect no dust. And put inside such a quantity of good vinegar & urine that it can be covered. And shake it
 And put inside such a quantity of good vinegar & urine that it can be covered. And shake it & torment
 if it is quite dead, take it out of the vinegar and take it by the tail. If it moves it,
 to cast, make him take through the mouth some good eau-de-vie or else mix a little with the vinegar. And soon
 some good eau-de-vie or else mix a little with the vinegar . And soon it will be dead, without any lesion
 large animals, for whom one would need a lot of eau-de-vie , one uses vinegar and er urine. But for small
 whom one would need a lot of eau-de-vie, one uses vinegar and er urine. But for small ones, only eau-de-vie, which
 need a lot of eau-de-vie, one uses vinegar and er urine . But for small ones, only eau-de-vie, which is done
 uses vinegar and er urine. But for small ones, only eau-de-vie , which is done sooner. When your animal is dead,
 of its old skin, if it sheds, or of the filth , or of the lice, like lizards have, and then
 es by blocking the eyelids with a little bit of wax or something else. For molding Making the arrangement and disposition
 arrangement and disposition of the animal Having made provision of fatty earth called clay, that should be grey because that commonly is
 of the animal Having made provision of fatty earth called clay , that should be grey because that commonly is the
 work, make a lasagna or like a cake of this earth equally flattened with a round stick which pastry makers use,
 its place & its hole, put the point of an iron wire of such a length that it suffices to hold the
 the other end of the point in the cake of clay . Thus, the head will be held high, which will
 does not move at all when you cast in the sand , put secure the legs & the corp with little
 secure the legs & the corp with little points of iron wire , having already made the first hole with a very
 of the animal by a Take a fine needle of steel , & which is the sharpest possible, in order that,
 with it the first hole to place the points of iron , it passes without forcing anything, & by its roughness
 out the skin. Next, put in a thickish point of iron in thick places & thin ones in thin places. But
 the point passed through the animal in the slab of earth , for but having planted it, take it out of
 for but having planted it, take it out of the earth & not out of the animal, & do ains next,
 the points you have already used, clean them well of rust so that they do not take away some skin. The
 is necessary that these points be of the most delicate iron wire possible which can support the size of the animal. For
 ought to be subtle & delicate, almost like the thickest strings of spinets . And it is better that they be of iron
 of spinets. And it is better that they be of iron wire , which is firmer than the one of latten. And
 that they be of iron wire, which is firmer than the one of latten . And if the end of the tail, or the
 put the point there, not to corrupt it. But place wax , as much as a grain of millet, between the
 to corrupt it. But place wax, as much as a grain of millet , between the body & ce qui the end of
 the tail, then with a bit of flattened & hot iron wire , touch this wax & join by lightly pressing. Thus
 a bit of flattened & hot iron wire, touch this wax & join by lightly pressing. Thus having placed your animal
 a mandore, place all around a circle of the same earth , in this way, b & join everything well together
 two thumbs, in order that when you cast in your wetted sand , you will see when it is thick enough. All
 All of this carefully arranged, moisten well everywhere with good eau-de-vie , with a paintbrush, the body of the animal which
 well hidden, because everything that will be v touched by eau-de-vie will undoubtedly come out very neatly & without porosity any
 And as soon as you have thus moistened everything with eau-de-vie , cast in your wetted sand without letting the eau-de-vie
 you have thus moistened everything with eau-de-vie, cast in your wetted sand without letting the eau-de-vie dry, which evaporates promptly. And wet
 with eau-de-vie, cast in your wetted sand without letting the eau-de-vie dry, which evaporates promptly. And wet it thus. and make
 Once placed thus, plant your snake on the slab of earth , & arrange the head first and then the rest.
 rest. If, after you have placed your animal on your clay cake, you are distracted with other occupations, rub your animal
 you are distracted with other occupations, rub your animal with eau-de-vie , & under the belly, so that it does not
 that it does not dry & attach itself to the earth . If, when you pierce your animal, it renders water
 the earth. If, when you pierce your animal, it renders water from the bottom of the side of the belly on
 of the side of the belly on the slab of earth , clean it well with cotton for the sand that
 belly on the slab of earth, clean it well with cotton for the sand that Eau-de-vie in three goes. would touch
 slab of earth, clean it well with cotton for the sand that Eau-de-vie in three goes. would touch it would be
 earth, clean it well with cotton for the sand that Eau-de-vie in three goes. would touch it would be lumpy. If
 it very carefully and touch it & moisten well with eau-de-vie . Tempering the sand and molding the first cast Take
 and touch it & moisten well with eau-de-vie. Tempering the sand and molding the first cast Take a bowl of leaded
 sand and molding the first cast Take a bowl of leaded earth of such size that it can hold the tempered
 and molding the first cast Take a bowl of leaded earth of such size that it can hold the tempered sand
 leaded earth of such size that it can hold the tempered sand which will be needed de to fill your mold in
 have a lip, to cast better. In these, pour some common fountain water , & mix into it as much sal ammoniac water
 some common fountain water, & mix into it as much sal ammoniac water as can be held in an egg, # composed as
 much sal ammoniac water as can be held in an egg , # composed as mentioned. If you want to cast
 # composed as mentioned. If you want to cast in lead or tin, because one would need more for casting gold
 as mentioned. If you want to cast in lead or tin , because one would need more for casting gold &
 lead or tin, because one would need more for casting gold & silver, the water being in your bowl, mix put
 tin, because one would need more for casting gold & silver , the water being in your bowl, mix put y
 one would need more for casting gold & silver, the water being in your bowl, mix put y your sand in
 the water being in your bowl, mix put y your sand in it & not the water in the sand, &
 mix put y your sand in it & not the water in the sand, & add it a dista dista with
 your sand in it & not the water in the sand , & add it a dista dista with such discretion
 that il, while stirring & mixing it promptly with a wooden spoon, it does not become thicker than clear mustard. And
 with a wooden spoon, it does not become thicker than clear mustard . And thus, first cast into your mold lethe lighter
 order to dissipate the small and big bubbles that the wetted sand makes & continue without delay to put all the rest
 shake the mold affin while casting, in order that the wetted sand runs & enters well everywhere. Also, tip your mold up
 mold will have the same thickness, & you will spare sand . All of this being carefully done fai, let it
 will take a quarter of an hour. Then, release the clay circle, which can be used another time. And leave it
 to dry a little, & separate your mold from the cake of earth , which also de will be appropriate for molding right
 one tempered batch; it is the best. # or two eggs , because there is no risk if there will be
 is no risk if there will be more. And the water If you cast in two goes, it is enough to
 you cast in two goes, it is enough to put sal ammoniac water at the first bowlful. Make it clear like a pureed
 water at the first bowlful. Make it clear like a pureed broth , or like starch water that women use to make
 bowlful. Make it clear like a pureed broth, or like starch water that women use to make their starch. For there is
 or like starch water that women use to make their starch . For there is no risk in it being very
 there is no risk in it being very clear, because sand always settles at the bottom & water separates & remains
 very clear, because sand always settles at the bottom & water separates & remains on top. The sand that one scrapes
 quickly, for all things calcined dry out promptly from mixed water . If you do not fill in one go your
 do not fill in one go your mold tempered with tempered sand , take heed to stir your second cast with the
 second cast anchors itself there & binds better without changing. Sal ammoniac water is not necessary to small molds, which require neither a
 are not malleable and has hollow ears, where, if the wet sand has entered, it is not aff easy to release. But
 on top & wipe each part, by wiping with tiny hog bristle brushes, slightly moistened by the end with a little saliva,
 bristle brushes, slightly moistened by the end with a little saliva , or with clear water, as you uncover it, in
 moistened by the end with a little saliva, or with clear water , as you uncover it, in order that your the
 mold your mold, for the length of a paternoster in water , not du the uncovered side but opposite, & the
 thing. And this is in order that, by sucking the water inside, the oil with which you next anoint the other
 is in order that, by sucking the water inside, the oil with which you next anoint the other side to avoid,
 therefore thus dipped the reverse of your mold in the water , take a paintbrush especially dedicated to this & anoint
 dedicated to this & anoint it with it, anoint with oil the whole surface of the mold, except the animal, which
 except the animal, which must in no way touch the oil , & take heed to retrace well & to anoint
 through all the delicate parts. And if by chance the oil is imbibed, dip the mo reverse of the mold, as
 dip the mo reverse of the mold, as mentioned, in water , & you will see the oil return to the
 mold, as mentioned, in water, & you will see the oil return to the surface in little drops. Mold small animals
 you need to make delicate points of of fil cist cittern strings , both long & short. remove with your small flat
 mold, put y between the two a small grain of wax , & with the point of a hot iron wire,
 grain of wax, & with the point of a hot iron wire , join it, then adapt your mold with a knife,
 prepared, place your de first half-mold on the cake of earth clay, & put the circle also around, & make the
 place your de first half-mold on the cake of earth clay , & put the circle also around, & make the
 the uncovered half & belly of your animal Et with eau-de-vie , without leaving anything, if it is possible, which is
 as promptly as will be possible for you, before the eau-de-vie ne evaporates, wet your sand and cast it in thrusts
 possible for you, before the eau-de-vie ne evaporates, wet your sand and cast it in thrusts and by blowing & moving
 an hour to set, then remove the circle & the clay cake. And, with a knife, arrange your two molds uniformly
 whole mold evenly, at the level of the joints, in water , for this is another secret to unjoin them, otherwise
 to mold it four of five times, put it in water . And I think that it would keep even better
 And I think that it would keep even better in eau-de-vie . However, the best would be to mold in the
 opening it, you would need to then dip it in hot water or else reheat it before opening it, as for crabs.
 & hard set, you would not dip your mold in water , it would not unjoin at all. But as you
 But as you dip the reverse of the mold in water , the imbibed oil collects at the top & at
 dip the reverse of the mold in water, the imbibed oil collects at the top & at the level of the
 it is lacking in this, after having dipped it in water , & you want to open it, there is a
 and wanting to open it, dip all of it in water and rub it everywhere, where it will harden if it
 well. Then, take your two molds, joined with a rough linen cloth in order to have a better grip, and separate
 as if you wanted to tear apart a loaf of bread . But if it happens to break, join it &
 that, when you want to put it to death in urine & vinegar, it fills with a lot of water &
 you want to put it to death in urine & vinegar , it fills with a lot of water & swells,
 in urine & vinegar, it fills with a lot of water & swells, and next it dries out as you fix
 dries out as you fix & arrange it on the clay cake, and next it happens that when you have cast
 next it happens that when you have cast your mold tempered sand on it, & it has set, it ends up coming
 distance D, in which enters the second batch of cast tempered sand M. Avoid this, therefore, if you can. But if this
 do not let this prevent your second cast, for the sand which will enter in this void will be so weak
 with the first hardened one. Note that one needs more feather alum for molds that should be reheated, like those for gold
 alum for molds that should be reheated, like those for gold & silver & things that one needs to burn inside
 molds that should be reheated, like those for gold & silver & things that one needs to burn inside than for
 those which release well & that are only for casting lead & tin. However, do not put too much in either
 release well & that are only for casting lead & tin . However, do not put too much in either one.
 so well that what remained inside burns, then pass some quicksilver inside, & attracting ce qui the ashes & the burnt
 then pass some quicksilver inside, & attracting ce qui the ashes & the burnt bones from the inside, it will also
 quicksilver inside, & attracting ce qui the ashes & the burnt bones from the inside, it will also come out, because the
 red on the inside when you will cast. Cast of tin If the plant or flower that you want to cast
 tin is delicate & fine, it is necessary that the tin exceeds the lead in the mixture, & on the contrary,
 & fine, it is necessary that the tin exceeds the lead in the mixture, & on the contrary, if it is
 contrary, if it is thick, it is necessary that the lead exceeds. Therefore, for the mixture fine thing, put in some
 exceeds. Therefore, for the mixture fine thing, put in some fine tin , not at all the quarter part of lead. And
 some fine tin, not at all the quarter part of lead . And make sure that your mold is hottish, such
 your hand when you want to cast. As for the alloyed tin , the same as mentioned, it is necessary that it
 And do not forget to mix in it a little looking-glass tin , which makes it run better & firms it up.
 makes it run better & firms it up. In the lead alloyed with tin , or tin alloyed with lead, you can put a
 firms it up. In the lead alloyed with tin, or tin alloyed with lead , you can put a little bit of metalline, &
 alloyed with lead, you can put a little bit of metalline , & it will seem silver. But do not put
 put a little bit of metalline, & it will seem silver . But do not put too much, for this hardens
 is very fine, you can pass a thread through the clay circle, rather than casting with a needle, & make sure
 forge en, or in some clean place, a surrounding of bricks , and fill it with large half-lit charcoals. And place
 well on the same fire, if it is for casting tin . They reheat better in a reverberatory furnace. Do not
 it is black, it is not enough. For casting in silver , one must not reheat two times &, if there
 inside. Next, one needs to clean them & remove the ashes . Second, reheat them & render them red for casting.
 put your noyau molds flat on the charcoals surrounded by bricks . Frame molds are reheated on a grate. Molding bouquets,
 wilt & dry out. Dip them, therefore, immediately in good eau-de-vie & then put them in your tempered sand mold, like
 in good eau-de-vie & then put them in your tempered sand mold, like snakes. For which one needs no release, for
 bones & q. It is necessary that for bouquets, the sand be not as thick as for snakes because, if it
 crush the flower. Molding de en noyau, with the same sand , wax images or lead medals and suchlike Check if
 the flower. Molding de en noyau, with the same sand, wax images or lead medals and suchlike Check if they release
 de en noyau, with the same sand, wax images or lead medals and suchlike Check if they release well. If they
 if they release well. If they do not, fill with wax what does not, and then anoint your images of wax
 wax what does not, and then anoint your images of wax or of lead with olive oil, very thinly & very
 not, and then anoint your images of wax or of lead with olive oil, very thinly & very lightly, such that
 then anoint your images of wax or of lead with olive oil , very thinly & very lightly, such that the oil
 olive oil, very thinly & very lightly, such that the oil makes no thickness nor body on the medal. Then, heat
 thickness nor body on the medal. Then, heat a little eau-de-vie , until & when it is lukewarm, moisten the oiled
 little eau-de-vie, until & when it is lukewarm, moisten the oiled medal with it, for if it is the water were
 the oiled medal with it, for if it is the water were cold, it would reject the oil, it would not
 it is the water were cold, it would reject the oil , it would not sit well on it. Next, cast
 it would not sit well on it. Next, cast your sand of plaster, bri brick, & wet alum on top, having arranged your image on the clay mandore
 not sit well on it. Next, cast your sand of plaster , bri brick, & wet alum on top, having arranged
 well on it. Next, cast your sand of plaster, bri brick , & wet alum on top, having arranged your image
 it. Next, cast your sand of plaster, bri brick, & wet alum on top, having arranged your image on the clay mandore
 wet alum on top, having arranged your image on the clay mandore & having made a circle around it de to
 de to give it the necessary thickness. These medals are oiled and rubbed thus with eau-de-vie because they are firm &
 necessary thickness. These medals are oiled and rubbed thus with eau-de-vie because they are firm & hard & would not be
 which are soft & flexible. When you have tempered your sand , do not cast it in the middle of the
 of the mold but on the sides, so that the sand descends gently and that the beginning is thin & afterward
 that the beginning is thin & afterward thick. If your tempered sand sounds like water falling in the mold, it is a
 thin & afterward thick. If your tempered sand sounds like water falling in the mold, it is a sign that is
 too thin. Make it, therefore, of medium thickness. Casting for gold and silver It is necessary that the molds be fiery
 Make it, therefore, of medium thickness. Casting for gold and silver It is necessary that the molds be fiery red &
 molds be fiery red & ablaze when you cast in gold & silver, or you burn flowers and bouquets. The gate
 fiery red & ablaze when you cast in gold & silver , or you burn flowers and bouquets. The gate should
 & does not become as porous. A way to grind enamel gold very delicate gold rose leaves and others After you
 as porous. A way to grind enamel gold very delicate gold rose leaves and others After you have cast or beaten
 leaves and others After you have cast or beaten in gold the thin leaves of a rose or other things, if
 of a rose or other things, if you want to enamel them, you need to solder or braze your delicate gold
 things, if you want to enamel them, you need to solder or braze your delicate gold leaves onto silver strips, which
 enamel them, you need to solder or braze your delicate gold leaves onto silver strips, which uy will strengthen them to
 need to solder or braze your delicate gold leaves onto silver strips , which uy will strengthen them to support the enamel.
 silver strips, which uy will strengthen them to support the enamel . Next, once the thing has been enameled, put the
 to support the enamel. Next, once the thing has been enameled , put the work in aquafortis d, which will eat
 once the thing has been enameled, put the work in aquafortis d , which will eat away the silver & leave all
 the work in aquafortis d, which will eat away the silver & leave all the gold with its enamel. For this,
 which will eat away the silver & leave all the gold with its enamel. For this, the gold needs to be
 away the silver & leave all the gold with its enamel . For this, the gold needs to be passed with
 leave all the gold with its enamel. For this, the gold needs to be passed with ciment real. Molding snakes in
 enamel. For this, the gold needs to be passed with ciment real . Molding snakes in all weather aulcu Because in the
 some feed them des in quantity in barrels filled with earth & covered with manure. Others make several molds in summer,
 in quantity in barrels filled with earth & covered with manure . Others make several molds in summer, because with one
 natural snake, without it being in a writhing shape, with common plaster , reheated as said pu, en noyau & in two
 two half molds, as said, then they cast it in wax . In that way they have snakes that they can
 twist as they like, and then they cast them in metal , as is said. If, in twisting the snake from
 metal, as is said. If, in twisting the snake from wax , some feature becomes undone, you can repair it by
 can repair it by removing the protrusions from the molded wax . Mixture of tin and lead For delicate plants &
 by removing the protrusions from the molded wax. Mixture of tin and lead For delicate plants & other flowers or thin
 the protrusions from the molded wax. Mixture of tin and lead For delicate plants & other flowers or thin foliage, the
 For delicate plants & other flowers or thin foliage, the fine tin ought to exceed the lead more than three parts. And
 or thin foliage, the fine tin ought to exceed the lead more than three parts. And if it is a thick
 And if it is a thick & coarse material, the lead ought to exceed by more than three parts. Heat the
 to exceed by more than three parts. Heat the mostly tin mixture until it is almost red & very hot. And
 from the fire, throw in two or three grains of rosin , & for one lb & a half or two
 & for one lb & a half or two of lead or tin, put with the rosin as much looking-glass tin
 one lb & a half or two of lead or tin , put with the rosin as much looking-glass tin as
 half or two of lead or tin, put with the rosin as much looking-glass tin as the size of a hazelnut
 of lead or tin, put with the rosin as much looking-glass tin as the size of a hazelnut with its shell, &
 cast. And make sure that there is more of the metal than is needed, in order that some is left. However,
 will not be so neat. Next, dip your mold into water , & with a point, release it carefully so that
 very thin, one needs for it to be almost all tin . If you mold more want to cast in lead
 all tin. If you mold more want to cast in lead or tin en noyau in the aforesaid sand, reheat your
 If you mold more want to cast in lead or tin en noyau in the aforesaid sand, reheat your mold once,
 cast in lead or tin en noyau in the aforesaid sand , reheat your mold once, only if there is nothing
 two times, however not as much the second time for lead & tin as for silver & gold. For for these,
 however not as much the second time for lead & tin as for silver & gold. For for these, they ought
 much the second time for lead & tin as for silver & gold. For for these, they ought to be red
 second time for lead & tin as for silver & gold . For for these, they ought to be red when
 they ought to be red when you cast, but for lead and tin, let it cool until you can hold the
 to be red when you cast, but for lead and tin , let it cool until you can hold the tip
 burning yourself, but you find a lukewarm heat. Cast for copper and latten For red copper, one needs to put sal
 but you find a lukewarm heat. Cast for copper and latten For red copper, one needs to put sal ammoniac, which
 find a lukewarm heat. Cast for copper and latten For red copper , one needs to put sal ammoniac, which cleans &
 copper and latten For red copper, one needs to put sal ammoniac , which cleans & purges it of all its crust
 well melted. There are some who put in pieces of old leather thick new leather. Others, parings of the feet of field
 are some who put in pieces of old leather thick new leather . Others, parings of the feet of field mice. Others,
 put in pieces of old leather thick new leather. Others, parings of the feet of field mice . Others, melted common salt alone, or melted with saltpeter.
 Others, parings of the feet of field mice. Others, melted common salt alone, or melted with saltpeter. The principal is sal ammoniac
 field mice. Others, melted common salt alone, or melted with saltpeter . The principal is sal ammoniac & a little fine
 common salt alone, or melted with saltpeter. The principal is sal ammoniac & a little fine tin, as to what you want
 with saltpeter. The principal is sal ammoniac & a little fine tin , as to what you want to cast. Red copper
 little fine tin, as to what you want to cast. Red copper is more troublesome to melt M than latten. But when
 cast. Red copper is more troublesome to melt M than latten . But when it is well melted, it runs better,
 it runs better, especially if it is alloyed d’un with latten . Latten alloys with a quarter of copper, and one
 runs better, especially if it is alloyed d’un with latten. Latten alloys with a quarter of copper, and one puts it
 alloyed d’un with latten. Latten alloys with a quarter of copper , and one puts it in like in copper. But
 quarter of copper, and one puts it in like in copper . But particularly, a little calamine makes it run well.
 puts it in like in copper. But particularly, a little calamine makes it run well. A means of molding flowers and
 them from afar, soak their stems in a bottle of water or, better still, wine. Make, first, a wax stick pointed
 their stems in a bottle of water or, better still, wine . Make, first, a wax stick pointed like a large
 bottle of water or, better still, wine. Make, first, a wax stick pointed like a large peg, of a size appropriate
 this small peg a bit of rather thickish & strong iron wire . And at the point of this, you will fit
 And arrange your mold of t circle & shape of clay , as you have done for the snakes, in the
 taught you, & wet & moisten it very carefully with good eau-de-vie with a paintbrush. Then pass the wire stem through the
 Then pass the wire stem through the end of the earthen mandore, in order that the wax q peg, where the
 the end of the earthen mandore, in order that the wax q peg, where the plant is fastened, joins to the
 the plant is fastened, joins to the end of the earthen mandore. And arrange thus your plant in such a way
 mandore, without touching on either side, so that a the sand that you will pour in it will be of equal
 having secured the wire stem well, promptly pour wetted your wetted sand , much thinner than the one for snakes, in the
 mandore. And the sooner the better, in order that the eau-de-vie does not dry. And take heed to put in a
 dry. And take heed to put in a little more sal ammoniac water among the common than you would do for the snakes. And when you
 would do for the snakes. And when you will make sand especially for your bouquets, where you would mix in a
 your bouquets, where you would mix in a little more feather alum , it can only be better. Thus, your mold will
 to unjoin it, but rather leave separate it from the clay once it will have set, let it dry, and then
 weak & delicate flower, cast plant it upright with the wax peg because the sand will always cast lift it up,
 cast plant it upright with the wax peg because the sand will always cast lift it up, it being very thin.
 of the cast, which is the pointed end of the wax peg. If the plants are so delicate that they rise
 that they rise to the top when you pour the tempered sand , one can fix and contain them with a thread
 needle. The more delicate the flower is, the thinner the sand must be. Mold en noyau. For making the ashes of
 the sand must be. Mold en noyau. For making the ashes of flowers and plants leave molds Some mix put quicksilver
 ashes of flowers and plants leave molds Some mix put quicksilver inside it. But, if it is a small work or
 the first, that quicksilver by its heaviness can break f some delicate feature inside
 that some grains will always linger inside that will make metals sour & hinder the perfection of the cast. It is
 & which has big conduits & passages by which the quicksilver can easily exit, like a bird or a snake, one
 or a snake, one can indeed put in it some quicksilver pou to break by shaking the calcined bones of the
 in it some quicksilver pou to break by shaking the calcined bones of the animal , because the said ☿ will come out & not
 shaking the calcined bones of the animal, because the said ☿ will come out & not remain. The asparagus stalk is
 stalk is so hard that most often it remains as charcoal . Because of this, dry it out beforehand, or wet
 of this, dry it out beforehand, or wet it with oil of sulfur & turpentine , or cast separately the little branches & solder them
 sulfur & turpentine, or cast separately the little branches & solder them onto a thick stalk drawn through the wire drawing
 wire drawing plate. If the burnt thing has left some filth or ash, let it cool a little, & with an
 plate. If the burnt thing has left some filth or ash , let it cool a little, & with an iron
 or ash, let it cool a little, & with an iron wire wrapped in cotton that can bend according to the cavities
 cool a little, & with an iron wire wrapped in cotton that can bend according to the cavities that you have
 a cut paintbrush. Daisies They can be cast well in gold . But if you want to enamel them, you have
 be cast well in gold. But if you want to enamel them, you have to make them by hand & enamel
 enamel them, you have to make them by hand & enamel them & then attach them. Otherwise, the leaves would be
 Otherwise, the leaves would be so pressed together that the enamel would muddle together there. Sand that was used Do not
 so pressed together that the enamel would muddle together there. Sand that was used Do not cast it. But because it is mixed with
 Do not cast it. But because it is mixed with feather alum , you can use it in the mixture of other
 of other sands, & it can serve in place of brick . Molding à noyau figures of wax or medals of
 serve in place of brick. Molding à noyau figures of wax or medals of lead Rub them with oil with a
 brick. Molding à noyau figures of wax or medals of lead Rub them with oil with a paintbrush, but let it
 figures of wax or medals of lead Rub them with oil with a paintbrush, but let it be so lightly that
 appears to have been anointed. Next, destr rub it with eau-de-vie and heat the water with which you will temper your
 anointed. Next, destr rub it with eau-de-vie and heat the water with which you will temper your aforesaid sand, with plaster,
 heat the water with which you will temper your aforesaid sand , with plaster, brick & alum, in order that being
 water with which you will temper your aforesaid sand, with plaster , brick & alum, in order that being chau as
 with which you will temper your aforesaid sand, with plaster, brick & alum, in order that being chau as if lukewarm
 you will temper your aforesaid sand, with plaster, brick & alum , in order that being chau as if lukewarm when
 being chau as if lukewarm when you cast it, the oil will not refuse it, as it does with cold water,
 the oil will not refuse it, as it does with cold water , & do not forget when moistening your sand to
 with cold water, & do not forget when moistening your sand to always mix in it a little sal ammoniac. Medals
 moistening your sand to always mix in it a little sal ammoniac . Medals mold in such a way very neatly. Blood
 sal ammoniac. Medals mold in such a way very neatly. Blood of snakes If you need to cut some snake inside the mold
 cut it far from the entrance of the mold lest blood remains, for it would make a crust that afterward would
 that afterward would not be taken away by the same quicksilver & would remove the impressions from your mold. Snails Those
 are stripped of the first crust of their shell with aquafortis , for they truly appear to be made of mother
 with aquafortis, for they truly appear to be made of mother of pearl . For removing flashing and barbs from things molded à
 from things molded à noyau If your molds are of good plaster which withstands well the fire, & they will not crack
 well between two boards or in a vessel filled with ashes or sand, & in this way they will make no
 two boards or in a vessel filled with ashes or sand , & in this way they will make no flashing.
 has a tip like a small chisel. For grottos The old vine stocks Stones made from water called stuf, charcoal, the compound of
 like a small chisel. For grottos The old vine stocks Stones made from water called stuf, charcoal, the compound of tin & fine latten,
 grottos The old vine stocks Stones made from water called stuf , charcoal, the compound of tin & fine latten, paper
 The old vine stocks Stones made from water called stuf, charcoal , the compound of tin & fine latten, paper pestled
 vine stocks Stones made from water called stuf, charcoal, the compound of tin & fine latten , paper pestled & mixed with pestled glass, cork, heated
 called stuf, charcoal, the compound of tin & fine latten, paper pestled & mixed with pestled glass, cork, heated parchment, white coral
 of tin & fine latten, paper pestled & mixed with pestled glass , cork, heated parchment, white coral are appropriate for making
 & fine latten, paper pestled & mixed with pestled glass, cork , heated parchment, white coral are appropriate for making grottos.
 fine latten, paper pestled & mixed with pestled glass, cork, heated parchment , white coral are appropriate for making grottos. But fantastical
 paper pestled & mixed with pestled glass, cork, heated parchment, white coral are appropriate for making grottos. But fantastical pieces of wood
 heated parchment, white coral are appropriate for making grottos. But fantastical pieces of wood which are found in the forests, & mushrooms, and potirons
 pieces of wood which are found in the forests, & mushrooms , and potirons of trees, once dry, are better than
 wood which are found in the forests, & mushrooms, and potirons of trees , once dry, are better than any other because they
 because they are light. One mixes in small pieces of looking-glass tin , which has a shiny luster. One finely pestles diverse
 has a shiny luster. One finely pestles diverse sorts of marcasites which one washes to cleanse them of earth, & one
 sorts of marcasites which one washes to cleanse them of earth , & one sprinkles the work with it, which is
 beautiful. If there is no fountain in the grotto, one glues all al of this with strong glue, which and it
 in the grotto, one glues all al of this with strong glue , which and it is soon done. Take specimens of
 it is soon done. Take specimens of all kinds of minerals . The sulfurous marcasites, which do not have a grain
 soon done. Take specimens of all kinds of minerals. The sulfurous marcasites , which do not have a grain but are uniform
 which do not have a grain but are uniform like looking-glass tin , are very beautiful. Rosette is found sometimes mixed with
 grain but are uniform like looking-glass tin, are very beautiful. Rosette is found sometimes mixed with certain brittle lumps which are
 under the hammer, which are very beautiful pulverized on grottos. Looking-glass tin It whitens & renders firm fine tin if en on
 beautiful pulverized on grottos. Looking-glass tin It whitens & renders firm fine tin if en on one puts in in one ounce of
 ounce of it, that is to say, i ℥ of looking-glass tin in one lb of fine tin. Sal ammoniac It Sal
 say, i ℥ of looking-glass tin in one lb of fine tin . Sal ammoniac It Sal ammoniac water is very natural
 ℥ of looking-glass tin in one lb of fine tin. Sal ammoniac It Sal ammoniac water is very natural for casting in
 tin in one lb of fine tin. Sal ammoniac It Sal ammoniac water is very natural for casting in gold & in silver.
 It Sal ammoniac water is very natural for casting in gold & in silver. Casting in frames The same sand that
 water is very natural for casting in gold & in silver . Casting in frames The same sand that was used
 in gold & in silver. Casting in frames The same sand that was used in the reheated noyaulx , composed, as is said, of plaster, brick & feather
 used in the reheated noyaulx, composed, as is said, of plaster , brick & feather alum, is excellent for casting in
 in the reheated noyaulx, composed, as is said, of plaster, brick & feather alum, is excellent for casting in frames, and
 reheated noyaulx, composed, as is said, of plaster, brick & feather alum , is excellent for casting in frames, and I have
 noyau molds in a mortar, dragging the pestle because this sand is very soft. I did not pass it through the
 I did not pass it through the sieve because the feather alum mixed throughout, which binds it, would not pass, but I
 binds it, would not pass, but I ground finely upon marble what seemed to me too coarse. And having prepared it
 coarse. And having prepared it thus, I moistened it with sal ammoniac water , made of sal ammoniac, as much as two walnuts,
 thus, I moistened it with sal ammoniac water, made of sal ammoniac , as much as two walnuts, in a bottle of
 ammoniac, as much as two walnuts, in a bottle of common water , the same size as a bottle in which one
 the same size as a bottle in which one boils tisane , or in a good pot of water, so that
 which one boils tisane, or in a good pot of water , so that you find d the water moderately salty.
 good pot of water, so that you find d the water moderately salty . I mixed throughout water of half a glass of
 you find d the water moderately salty. I mixed throughout water of half a glass of sal ammoniac, two othe two
 water moderately salty. I mixed throughout water of half a glass of sal ammoniac, two othe two au t silver spoonfuls
 salty. I mixed throughout water of half a glass of sal ammoniac , two othe two au t silver spoonfuls of eau-de-vie.
 a glass of sal ammoniac, two othe two au t silver spoonfuls of eau-de-vie. J’a Having thus moistened the sand in
 sal ammoniac, two othe two au t silver spoonfuls of eau-de-vie . J’a Having thus moistened the sand in such a
 t silver spoonfuls of eau-de-vie. J’a Having thus moistened the sand in such a fashion that it gives a good hold,
 hold, nevertheless coming apart easily, I sprinkled my medal with charcoal pulverized with a file, to rid it of oil and all
 with charcoal pulverized with a file, to rid it of oil and all other grease, which are necessary to avoid, for
 a file, to rid it of oil and all other grease , which are necessary to avoid, for they make would
 the & edge of the medal & on the nearby sand as well. In order that the second frame s’em take
 outline of the medal and pounced the whole side with pulverized charcoal , and then filled the male part with sand. Once
 with pulverized charcoal, and then filled the male part with sand . Once made I separated the frame and did not
 d medal to make it release, because that knocks the sand & makes it esp crumble. Rather, I struck the back
 the a row of charcoals between two little trivets of iron in the form that you see, and put the back
 safe & whole. For better, one needs to reheat the sand used for the noyau before using it in frame, until it no longer contracts.
 before using it in frame, until it no longer contracts. Excellent sand Take a little of the same sand, the finest that
 longer contracts. Excellent sand Take a little of the same sand, the finest that you can , to cover the medal with. For medals & flat
 with. For medals & flat things, the true heat of lead & tin is when it is melted gently. Note that
 medals & flat things, the true heat of lead & tin is when it is melted gently. Note that I filled
 does not shift at all, & if you put some wetted sand under it, it will only hold in place more firmly.
 to rid them of humidity so that they no longer smoke , being nevertheless very hot. Reheating is to redden the
 Reheating is to redden the frame, which is done for gold and for silver. As I saw that they did not
 redden the frame, which is done for gold and for silver . As I saw that they did not smoke anymore
 and for silver. As I saw that they did not smoke anymore & that, scratching the back & the front of
 quite dry, I left them to cool. I took some fine tin f, one lb, & one ounce of lead, fine &
 some fine tin f, one lb, & one ounce of lead, fine & new . I melted it in a crucible until it was,
 a little red. Being in this way quite hot I smoked & not p & being ready to cast, & not
 p & being ready to cast, & not before, I smoked with the smoke of a tallow candle all sides of
 ready to cast, & not before, I smoked with the smoke of a tallow candle all sides of my frames & imprint & cast &
 I threw in two or three grains of something like pitch rosin , & at the same time the size of a
 at the same time the size of a bean of looking-glass tin , & I mixed, & stirred the crucible a little,
 the medal came out as neat as the principal. I smoked it with the candle & cleaned it with small brushes.
 as neat as the principal. I smoked it with the candle & cleaned it with small brushes. Always cast through the
 frame, they will come out better. Advice about the above Good tin is that which is hard as silver & soft nevertheless.
 the above Good tin is that which is hard as silver & soft nevertheless. If your work is thin, it must
 If your work is thin, it must be almost all tin & alloyed as is said. Looking-glass tin must not be
 must be almost all tin & alloyed as is said. Looking-glass tin must not be smoked mixed until the instant that you
 & alloyed as is said. Looking-glass tin must not be smoked mixed until the instant that you want to cast. Nor
 that you want to cast. Nor must the forms be smoked until then. If the sand shrinks in the frame, this
 Nor must the forms be smoked until then. If the sand shrinks in the frame, this means that it must be
 it must be reheated & reddened on the fire. Good sand , when moistened, does not stick at all to the
 not stick at all to the hand when pressed. The perfect sand for the frame is aspalt, which is found in Germany, which is soft
 hand when pressed. The perfect sand for the frame is aspalt , which is found in Germany, which is soft as
 aspalt, which is found in Germany, which is soft as flour & almo when wet, and almost all the others are
 not exceed the thickness of a the width of a grain of wheat ; likewise for tin, which wants to be cast very
 a the width of a grain of wheat; likewise for tin , which wants to be cast very thinly. For lead,
 for tin, which wants to be cast very thinly. For lead , a little thicker. There is no need to make
 the vents very large & deep either. For frames, the sand that you use for the noyau , of the aforesaid composition, is excellent. But in washing,
 & to mold en noyau. Fashion of preparing a spalt spat It is found in earth in Germany, the color of
 It is found in earth in Germany, the color of cooked plaster , made of long filaments, very soft to handle. And
 very soft to handle. And because it is mixed with earth and filth, one pestles it coarsely & one makes little
 to handle. And because it is mixed with earth and filth , one pestles it coarsely & one makes little balls,
 makes little balls, having for this purpose soaked it in sal ammoniac water of such a composition that you were told above. One
 the potters, then one soaks it again in the same water . The earth and the coarseness and filth go to
 then one soaks it again in the same water. The earth and the coarseness and filth go to the bottom, and
 in the same water. The earth and the coarseness and filth go to the bottom, and the pure aspalte, which is
 the coarseness and filth go to the bottom, and the pure aspalte , which is light & soft, and handleable as wet
 pure aspalte, which is light & soft, and handleable as wet flour , adheres with the water and goes to the surface,
 & soft, and handleable as wet flour, adheres with the water and goes to the surface, clouding the water, which murkiness
 with the water and goes to the surface, clouding the water , which murkiness is emptied into a separate vase. When
 a separate vase. When it has settled, one empties the water by tilting or by taking it away with a sponge,
 or by taking it away with a sponge, and the pure aspalte remains at the bottom. Dry it & employ it in
 employ it in a frame that has been moistened with sal ammoniac water . And try it in the frame, in which it
 one, because it is the most perfect of all for gold , silver, copper, lead, latten, & tin, for it withstands
 because it is the most perfect of all for gold, silver , copper, lead, latten, & tin, for it withstands the
 it is the most perfect of all for gold, silver, copper , lead, latten, & tin, for it withstands the fire
 is the most perfect of all for gold, silver, copper, lead , latten, & tin, for it withstands the fire &
 the most perfect of all for gold, silver, copper, lead, latten , & tin, for it withstands the fire & reddens
 perfect of all for gold, silver, copper, lead, latten, & tin , for it withstands the fire & reddens whenever need
 sure to put aside the one that served for casting lead & tin & latten, for gold would sour in it,
 put aside the one that served for casting lead & tin & latten, for gold would sour in it, & would
 the one that served for casting lead & tin & latten , for gold would sour in it, & would not
 that served for casting lead & tin & latten, for gold would sour in it, & would not come out of
 you could put it aside to be used for each metal . See Gesnerus, De lapidibus It endures ten or twelve
 withstands the fire & reddens, it is suitable for all metals . It is so tenacious that should the frame be
 tenacious that should the frame be furrowed, it holds. The spat almost does not set, even though it is reheated &
 even though it is reheated & is a kind of plaster . Raw, it breaks easily with the fingers. Excellent secret
 fingers. Excellent secret for molding hollow and very delicately in fine gold Cast with your aforesaid sand your animal and lizard or
 and very delicately in fine gold Cast with your aforesaid sand your animal and lizard or other thing with billon silver,
 aforesaid sand your animal and lizard or other thing with billon silver , & it will come out very neat. E But
 small hole in its mouth or in another place. Next, gild it with fine gold, as uniform as it will be
 its mouth or in another place. Next, gild it with fine gold , as uniform as it will be possible for you,
 you, three or four or five times, & until your gold has the thickness of a piece of paper or something
 until your gold has the thickness of a piece of paper or something similar, & all the scales will always show
 scales will always show equally. Next, put it in good aquafortis , which, by this hole, will corrode the billon, &
 in good aquafortis, which, by this hole, will corrode the billon , & the gold will remain hollow & light &
 which, by this hole, will corrode the billon, & the gold will remain hollow & light & wonderful. Stamped medals from
 will remain hollow & light & wonderful. Stamped medals from wax You can mold in wax, mixed with a bit of
 & wonderful. Stamped medals from wax You can mold in wax , mixed with a bit of rosin so it will
 You can mold in wax, mixed with a bit of rosin so it will be harder & firmer, the relief of
 medal, & then, from it, make a hollow form of latten or copper. Or, hit it mold it in relief and
 then, from it, make a hollow form of latten or copper . Or, hit it mold it in relief and hammer
 it in relief and hammer it in a sheet of tin , Et pu and then fill with lead & heat
 a sheet of tin, Et pu and then fill with lead & heat it. Try sheets of gemstone foils molded in
 pu and then fill with lead & heat it. Try sheets of gemstone foils molded in a hollow form for lizards, &c. Sand for
 gemstone foils molded in a hollow form for lizards, &c. Sand for casting in gold Take common sand of alum, of plaster & brick, according
 a hollow form for lizards, &c. Sand for casting in gold Take common sand of alum, of plaster & brick, according
 form for lizards, &c. Sand for casting in gold Take common sand of alum, of plaster & brick, according to the composition
 &c. Sand for casting in gold Take common sand of alum , of plaster & brick, according to the composition said
 for casting in gold Take common sand of alum, of plaster & brick, according to the composition said above. Add to
 in gold Take common sand of alum, of plaster & brick , according to the composition said above. Add to it
 to the composition said above. Add to it some more feather alum . And mix in not quite the third part of
 alum. And mix in not quite the third part of crocum ferri . However, its quantity cannot be harmful, for it is
 cannot be harmful, for it is that which receives the gold & thanks to which it comes out very neatly. But
 comes out very neatly. But it were good that your crocum had previously been in the glassmaker’s fornaise, three or four
 very thick, so that it reheats better. You could cast gold well in common sand of goldsmiths, should you throw therein
 that it reheats better. You could cast gold well in common sand of goldsmiths , should you throw therein some substance that makes it
 some substance that makes it run. Before the invention of crocum , one would cast flowers in silver but not at
 Before the invention of crocum, one would cast flowers in silver but not at all in gold. It has not been
 would cast flowers in silver but not at all in gold . It has not been forty years that one knows
 not been forty years that one knows this in Germany. Sublimate is commonly employed by goldsmiths for gold. Some add sulfur,
 this in Germany. Sublimate is commonly employed by goldsmiths for gold . Some add sulfur, but they & others are wrong,
 Sublimate is commonly employed by goldsmiths for gold. Some add sulfur , but they & others are wrong, for sulfur sours,
 Some add sulfur, but they & others are wrong, for sulfur sours, even as it heats. And the sublimate is agitated,
 wrong, for sulfur sours, even as it heats. And the sublimate is agitated, boils, and bubbles. It is very good to
 agitated, boils, and bubbles. It is very good to clean gold because by its exhalations, it draws everything out as it
 exhalations, it draws everything out as it goes up in smoke . But to warm gold & conserve its heat, there
 out as it goes up in smoke. But to warm gold & conserve its heat, there is only the couleur, which
 warm gold & conserve its heat, there is only the couleur , which is verdet, sal ammoniac, saltpeter & borax. This
 conserve its heat, there is only the couleur, which is verdet , sal ammoniac, saltpeter & borax. This makes it run,
 its heat, there is only the couleur, which is verdet, sal ammoniac , saltpeter & borax. This makes it run, & you
 there is only the couleur, which is verdet, sal ammoniac, saltpeter & borax. This makes it run, & you can throw
 only the couleur, which is verdet, sal ammoniac, saltpeter & borax . This makes it run, & you can throw in
 This makes it run, & you can throw in a branch of wormseed . IlNightingale One needs for the cage, made like those
 like those for larks like a barn & lined with green fabric , to be made with a drawer underneath, to refresh
 put in its beak with a small pointed stick some mutton heart or other delicate flesh, chopped up not too finely, in
 with a small pointed stick some mutton heart or other delicate flesh , chopped up not too finely, in order to fill
 next morning, you will give it in its cage some well-minced flesh with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg , and change it two or three times a day,
 And to entice it better, you could add amongst the meat & the egg some live mealworms, for it is very fond of them.
 you could add amongst the meat & the egg some live mealworms , for it is very fond of them. Crocum ferri
 some live mealworms, for it is very fond of them. Crocum ferri It is excellent plastered on wounds to stop the blood.
 wounds to stop the blood. The best is made of needle filings . Crocum ferri hardens molds, once reheated, & feather alum,
 stop the blood. The best is made of needle filings. Crocum ferri hardens molds, once reheated, & feather alum, the more there
 of needle filings. Crocum ferri hardens molds, once reheated, & feather alum , the more there is, it renders them softer &
 boil it, or else skin it & put it into good quicklime . Making silver run If it is for a large
 else skin it & put it into good quicklime. Making silver run If it is for a large work, arsenic &
 Making silver run If it is for a large work, arsenic & tartar, pulverized & thrown on the melted silver, makes
 run If it is for a large work, arsenic & tartar , pulverized & thrown on the melted silver, makes it
 large work, arsenic & tartar, pulverized & thrown on the melted silver , makes it run If it is and suffices. But
 is and suffices. But for fine work, one needs some aes ustum , filings of latten of thin copper, u antimony, sublimate,
 suffices. But for fine work, one needs some aes ustum, filings of latten of thin copper, u antimony, sublimate, finely pulverized . This From this gets made a mass that does
 made a mass that does not sour. If the s plaster is good, one ought not to add crocum for silver,
 the s plaster is good, one ought not to add crocum for silver, but one puts more feather alum. It needs
 plaster is good, one ought not to add crocum for silver , but one puts more feather alum. It needs also
 not to add crocum for silver, but one puts more feather alum . It needs also some melted common salt & some
 arsenic, tartar, aes
 arsenic, tartar, aes ustum, copper filings,
 arsenic , tartar, aes ustum, copper filings, antimony &c. See the
 arsenic, tartar , aes ustum, copper filings, antimony &c. See the second
 arsenic, tartar, aes ustum , copper filings, antimony &c. See the second leaf following.
 arsenic, tartar, aes ustum, copper filings , antimony &c. See the second leaf following. Sciscitatio dubia
 arsenic, tartar, aes ustum, copper filings, antimony &c. See the second leaf following. Sciscitatio dubia A little
 &c. See the second leaf following. Sciscitatio dubia A little tallow and arsenic Keeping dry flowers in the same state all
 the second leaf following. Sciscitatio dubia A little tallow and arsenic Keeping dry flowers in the same state all year This
 they would not keep. Having thus chosen them, therefore, take sand, the leanest & driest you can find , which should be very fine, like that which goldsmiths
 very fine, like that which goldsmiths use use to work enamel or like that for stampings. But above all, it must
 that for stampings. But above all, it must not make dust , nor remain on the hand, or leave a mark
 & then poured it from your hand. For it is River sand washed by the current of the waters is good, being
 current of the waters is good, being passed through a linen cloth to shake the powder. + Flowers are also kept
 + Flowers are also kept in their same beauty in distilled vinegar vin a well sealed vessel which does not allow any
 not allow any wind, which should be well sealed with wax & mastic. Carnations & roses, the residue of common vinegar
 any wind, which should be well sealed with wax & mastic . Carnations & roses, the residue of common vinegar makes
 well sealed with wax & mastic. Carnations & roses, the residue of common vinegar makes them rot. If the sand makes dust, & clings
 the residue of common vinegar makes them rot. If the sand makes dust, & clings to the flowers, & is not
 of common vinegar makes them rot. If the sand makes dust , & clings to the flowers, & is not easily
 sure your box is well joined, in order that the sand does not trickle out. Keep it uncovered in sunlight and
 in which you first make a mound of the said sand , on which you will set the stalk of your
 the air. Then, weigh down the stalk with more on sand in order that it remains firm & fixed. Finally, take
 remains firm & fixed. Finally, take some of the same sand & with two fingers pulverize & cast it delicately on
 table where the box is set in order that the sand drops & enters everywhere. Finally, cover it all over and
 days to hot sun. And while the flower dries, the sand , which ever accompanies it & holds it, does not
 broom, and others that your experience will teach you. The sand with which goldsmiths buff enamels or the white one that glassmakers use , & any lean sand that does not hold together,
 experience will teach you. The sand with which goldsmiths buff enamels or the white one that glassmakers use, & any lean
 buff enamels or the white one that glassmakers use, & any lean sand that does not hold together , pass it through a horsehair sieve, for it ought
 sand that does not hold together, pass it through a horsehair sieve, for it ought not to be so thin. Next,
 to remove all humidity from it, and ventilate it like grain so that the dust goes away. Once it is rid
 it the fruit with your hand, and put them in glass bottles that have a wide opening, like tall glass boxes
 in glass bottles that have a wide opening, like tall glass boxes for putting preserves. Fortify them with straw or something
 like tall glass boxes for putting preserves. Fortify them with straw or something else so that they may not break, and
 that they may not break, and seal them well with wax so that they may not breathe. And if they had
 that they may not breathe. And if they had a glass lid, well-sealed with wax, they would be all the better.
 breathe. And if they had a glass lid, well-sealed with wax , they would be all the better. Put them in
 a vat, or in a cos of earth full of water . For where the hand will touch, it will rot,
 not to breathe on them. You can also put in leaves from vine . For casting in silver You need to arrange your
 can also put in leaves from vine. For casting in silver You need to arrange your animals as said and compose
 to arrange your animals as said and compose the same sand two parts of out of 4 parts of plaster, of
 same sand two parts of out of 4 parts of plaster , of two parts reheated brick, & one part reheated
 of out of 4 parts of plaster, of two parts reheated brick , & one part reheated feather alum, and mix it
 of plaster, of two parts reheated brick, & one part reheated feather alum , and mix it well. Then, having been prepared thus,
 from which the peasants eat their soup, of the aforesaid sand , & add to it pure feather alum, reheated &
 their soup, of the aforesaid sand, & add to it pure feather alum, reheated & pulverized in the mortar, as much as you can take with
 handful. Then, mix mix well & wet with a little sal ammoniac & the rest of the common water, + & stir
 with a little sal ammoniac & the rest of the common water , + & stir it with your spatula so that
 with your spatula so that it all becomes like a thick sauce or thin mustard, & having rubbed the animal with eau-de-vie
 so that it all becomes like a thick sauce or thin mustard , & having rubbed the animal with eau-de-vie with the
 sauce or thin mustard, & having rubbed the animal with eau-de-vie with the paintbrush, cast, & blow, and beat the table
 as with others. Do not forget to put in it crocum , for it prevents the molds from cracking & is
 prevents the molds from cracking & is appropriate for all metals . Alloyed silver is better for casting than the fine
 the molds from cracking & is appropriate for all metals. Alloyed silver is better for casting than the fine one , provided that it is sweet. One needs the feather
 fine one, provided that it is sweet. One needs the feather alum to be well pulverized and well mixed. Sal ammoniac is
 the feather alum to be well pulverized and well mixed. Sal ammoniac is a friend of gold & of silver. which needs
 pulverized and well mixed. Sal ammoniac is a friend of gold & of silver. which needs to be placed before the
 mixed. Sal ammoniac is a friend of gold & of silver . which needs to be placed before the sand in
 & of silver. which needs to be placed before the sand in the bowl, which is put in the water, &
 the sand in the bowl, which is put in the water , & not the water in the sand Latten is
 bowl, which is put in the water, & not the water in the sand Latten is the enemy of gold &
 put in the water, & not the water in the sand Latten is the enemy of gold & the friend of
 in the water, & not the water in the sand Latten is the enemy of gold & the friend of silver.
 the water in the sand Latten is the enemy of gold & the friend of silver. Silver for casting It is
 Latten is the enemy of gold & the friend of silver . Silver for casting It is not fine silver but
 is the enemy of gold & the friend of silver. Silver for casting It is not fine silver but alloyed, &
 & the friend of silver. Silver for casting It is not fine silver but alloyed , & which does not become perfectly white on the
 whiten after the fusion to also clean it of the solder or of the. When you need to attach some leg
 leg animal against another or to repair, it is commonly teston silver . And all alloyed silver, as long as it is
 or to repair, it is commonly teston silver. And all alloyed silver , as long as it is sweet, is good. Before
 it is sweet, is good. Before starting to cast in silver , one needs to have earth of which which withstands
 Before starting to cast in silver, one needs to have earth of which which withstands the fire, like the sandy earth
 have earth of which which withstands the fire, like the sandy earth de qu mixed with cloth waste which founders use to
 the fire, like the sandy earth de qu mixed with cloth waste which founders use to cast their cannons , or any good lute which withstands the fire, in
 waste which founders use to cast their cannons, or any good lute which withstands the fire, in order to surround your molds
 be all red. One needs to also bind them with iron wire . That before casting sil reheating the molds, you have
 molds, you have the mixture one needs to make the silver run. If the goldsmiths knew knew the substance to make
 run. If the goldsmiths knew knew the substance to make silver run in their works, they would buy much of it.
 buy it five sous for a denier. I have used silver from the Capital Before binding luting & strengthening your molds for gold &
 denier. I have used silver from the Capital Before binding luting & strengthening your molds for gold & silver with the
 the Capital Before binding luting & strengthening your molds for gold & silver with the aforesaid earth, one needs for the
 Before binding luting & strengthening your molds for gold & silver with the aforesaid earth, one needs for the cast to
 strengthening your molds for gold & silver with the aforesaid earth , one needs for the cast to be made &
 that are inside, & to clean them well of the ashes . Once quite clean & prepared, lute them & bind
 them well of the ashes. Once quite clean & prepared, lute them & bind them with iron wire, & reheat them
 quite clean & prepared, lute them & bind them with iron wire , & reheat them again until they will be quite
 And to steady it over the void, take a little wax & rub it, & lengthen it on a table into
 you will need, & with the tip of a hot iron wire , join it where it will be necessary. Steady also
 (when you uncover the half of the belly) with some wax , taken lightly with the point of a penknife, &
 point of a penknife, & joined & melted with the iron wire . And when you make your gate, you ought only
 wax to the place & to the edge of the wax which, being joined to the animal & melting, will continue
 stem into its mouth. Then put two little pieces of wax around the stem of the plant. And with the end
 stem of the plant. And with the end of a iron wire that is hot, melt the wax a little, & with
 end of a iron wire that is hot, melt the wax a little, & with the other hand, close the jaws
 weak like wormwood leaf, which droops, the dampness of the sand will lift it up, & make it swim & hold
 the bowl and the spoon with which one tempers the sand Be careful to clean, as soon as & quickly after
 & your spatula or spoon with which you temper your sand , because ’il if it dries in them, it crumbles
 it dries in them, it crumbles & falls into the fresh sand & makes a hole or a fault in the work.
 up & flake off & prevent neat casting. Molding hollow Wax on its own cools too quickly & does not run
 cools too quickly & does not run well everywhere, & tallow keeps its heat well & runs everywhere, but on its
 but on its own it is not good. But when wax & tallow are mixed, the work is all the better.
 its own it is not good. But when wax & tallow are mixed, the work is all the better. Crayfish &
 of the mold, that is, the first cast on the clay slab, cracks more readily in the fire than the second.
 as the medal, if it is not very thin like paper . And then, from the medal toward the gate, thicken
 hau the top of the gate to prevent that the metal runs furiously. A means di far correr lotnegra Take white
 the metal runs furiously. A means di far correr l otnegra Take white arsenic, two ounces, 2 ℥ Orpiment or yellow
 metal runs furiously. A means di far correr lotnegra Take white arsenic , two ounces, 2 ℥ Orpiment or yellow arsenic, two
 far correr lotnegra Take white arsenic, two ounces, 2 ℥ Orpiment or yellow arsenic, two ounces, 2 ℥ Aes ustum, two
 lotnegra Take white arsenic, two ounces, 2 ℥ Orpiment or yellow arsenic , two ounces, 2 ℥ Aes ustum, two ounces, 2
 2 ℥ Orpiment or yellow arsenic, two ounces, 2 ℥ Aes ustum , two ounces, 2 ℥ fine copper filings, moderately ground,
 two ounces, 2 ℥ Aes ustum, two ounces, 2 ℥ fine copper filings , moderately ground, 2 ℥ Antimony, 2 ℥ Rock salt,
 ounces, 2 ℥ fine copper filings, moderately ground, 2 ℥ Antimony , 2 ℥ Rock salt, 2 ℥ Raw tartar, 2
 fine copper filings, moderately ground, 2 ℥ Antimony, 2 ℥ Rock salt , 2 ℥ Raw tartar, 2 ℥ Sandiver, 2 ℥
 ground, 2 ℥ Antimony, 2 ℥ Rock salt, 2 ℥ Raw tartar , 2 ℥ Sandiver, 2 ℥ Saltpeter, half, that is
 2 ℥ Rock salt, 2 ℥ Raw tartar, 2 ℥ Sandiver , 2 ℥ Saltpeter, half, that is to say 1
 salt, 2 ℥ Raw tartar, 2 ℥ Sandiver, 2 ℥ Saltpeter , half, that is to say 1 ℥ Coarse common
 2 ℥ Saltpeter, half, that is to say 1 ℥ Coarse common salt melted , half, 1 ℥ Sublimate, half, 1 ℥ Borax, half,
 say 1 ℥ Coarse common salt melted, half, 1 ℥ Sublimate , half, 1 ℥ Borax, half, 1 ℥ Sal ammoniac,
 common salt melted, half, 1 ℥ Sublimate, half, 1 ℥ Borax , half, 1 ℥ Sal ammoniac, as much as borax,
 1 ℥ Sublimate, half, 1 ℥ Borax, half, 1 ℥ Sal ammoniac , as much as borax, that is to say 1
 ℥ Borax, half, 1 ℥ Sal ammoniac, as much as borax , that is to say 1 ℥ Take these substances,
 mouth, from the eyes down, to avoid the exhalations of arsenic , sublimate, and orpiment. Mix them well, all together, then
 from the eyes down, to avoid the exhalations of arsenic, sublimate , and orpiment. Mix them well, all together, then put
 eyes down, to avoid the exhalations of arsenic, sublimate, and orpiment . Mix them well, all together, then put them in
 it from top to bottom and on the sides with iron wire quite strongly, lute it with earth mixed with dung or
 bottom and on the sides with iron wire quite strongly, lute it with earth mixed with dung or founder’s earth that
 the sides with iron wire quite strongly, lute it with earth mixed with dung or founder’s earth that artillery founders use . And in this, be careful & diligent, & do
 careful & diligent, & do not forget to mix in pestled glass throughout the lute to fortify your crucible in such a
 do not forget to mix in pestled glass throughout the lute to fortify your crucible in such a manner that it
 last ingredients would be exhaled. Note that you need to lute well your crucible, in order that the substances do not
 the substances do not take air, for they are exhaled. Lute well your crucible, in order that it does not break.
 wares, for at the end of their works, they can solder over the first solder by means of this mixture. In
 end of their works, they can solder over the first solder by means of this mixture. In general, all those who
 be divulged, lest it be abused. The grain is like broken steel . Your lute being dry, put, in the early morning,
 it be abused. The grain is like broken steel. Your lute being dry, put, in the early morning, your crucible in
 your crucible as for gently letting the fury of the saltpeter pass. Then, invigorate little by little & with judgment the
 you. And before working at it, take in the morning good buttered toast , and hold the said butter, or zedoary, or gold
 in the morning good buttered toast, and hold the said butter , or zedoary, or gold coins, in your mouth, and
 morning good buttered toast, and hold the said butter, or zedoary , or gold coins, in your mouth, and ada cover
 buttered toast, and hold the said butter, or zedoary, or gold coins , in your mouth, and ada cover your face with
 you make run to clear the great works of the silver from the metallic mass like snakes & similar things when
 to clear the great works of the silver from the metallic mass like snakes & similar things when it starts to
 principally delicate flowers and herbs putting a little in the melted silver when you want to cast it However it is necessary
 to always put a little of this grain in the silver when you want to cast it is well melted and
 you are ready to cast. Thus, do as you make fine tin on copper, & for looking-glass tin on lead and on
 to cast. Thus, do as you make fine tin on copper , & for looking-glass tin on lead and on tin.
 do as you make fine tin on copper, & for looking-glass tin on lead and on tin. And just as looking-glass tin
 make fine tin on copper, & for looking-glass tin on lead and on tin. And just as looking-glass tin sours lead
 on copper, & for looking-glass tin on lead and on tin . And just as looking-glass tin sours lead and tin
 looking-glass tin on lead and on tin. And just as looking-glass tin sours lead and tin too much if you put it
 lead and on tin. And just as looking-glass tin sours lead and tin too much if you put it in too
 on tin. And just as looking-glass tin sours lead and tin too much if you put it in too great a
 the grain composed of the aforesaid substances would sour your silver if l you were to put in too much, and
 The upper one is as if petrified Once, composed of salts, sublimated & mixed together . The lower one is metallic, composed of filings, aes
 of salts, sublimated & mixed together. The lower one is metallic , composed of filings, aes ustum & antimony, having the
 & mixed together. The lower one is metallic, composed of filings , aes ustum & antimony, having the grain very small.
 mixed together. The lower one is metallic, composed of filings, aes ustum & antimony, having the grain very small. Pulverize the upper
 lower one is metallic, composed of filings, aes ustum & antimony , having the grain very small. Pulverize the upper cake,
 the grain very small. Pulverize the upper cake, made from salts , & put some to clear, & clean the silver,
 from salts, & put some to clear, & clean the silver , and the metallic grain will serve you to put
 put some to clear, & clean the silver, and the metallic grain will serve you to put in the melted metal. Charcoal
 the metallic grain will serve you to put in the melted metal . Charcoal fire Or else after you have had your
 And having put them in your crucible, & the latter luted & dry as said & placed into the furnace, have
 boy familiar with charcoal. One sells well to silversmiths this metallic mass to soften their solder, because when melting, latten exhales.
 sells well to silversmiths this metallic mass to soften their solder , because when melting, latten exhales. And with a little
 this metallic mass to soften their solder, because when melting, latten exhales. And with a little of this substance, they solder
 latten exhales. And with a little of this substance, they solder over the other solder. Animals with hair and fragile and
 a little of this substance, they solder over the other solder . Animals with hair and fragile and very thin flowers
 it firmer. And in this, the most singular thing is wheat oil , with which you will anoint it. Once cast, you
 downy hair, also need to be anointed with the same oil , to keep this down flat; likewise flowers that have
 flowers that have very delicate & thin leaves, for dry wheat oil makes them rigid and firm. And if someone brags about
 slightest sigh of wind. Noyaulx for molding hollow Animals of gold & silver can readily be molded s hollow, to avoid
 of wind. Noyaulx for molding hollow Animals of gold & silver can readily be molded s hollow, to avoid weightiness and
 molded & not dry. Spider’s web It comes undone in water & thus cannot be molded en noyau, but one casts
 the grass that they make in the fields on some quarton with a point. One makes around it an edge of
 with a point. One makes around it an edge of paper , glued to the quarton & one casts with tin,
 a point. One makes around it an edge of paper, glued to the quarton & one casts with tin, very little alloyed with lead.
 of paper, glued to the quarton & one casts with tin, very little alloyed with lead . Fine gold There is a property of gold which,
 & one casts with tin, very little alloyed with lead. Fine gold There is a property of gold which, even though it
 alloyed with lead. Fine gold There is a property of gold which, even though it is very fine & unalloyed &
 is very fine & unalloyed & has been passed through aquafortis & antimony, is nevertheless so brittle that it hardly withstands
 fine & unalloyed & has been passed through aquafortis & antimony , is nevertheless so brittle that it hardly withstands the
 that it hardly withstands the hammer. And the composition of verdet , described above to make gold run, makes it as
 hammer. And the composition of verdet, described above to make gold run, makes it as soft as lead. Rouge clair enamel
 above to make gold run, makes it as soft as lead . Rouge clair enamel Fine gold is opposed to it,
 to make gold run, makes it as soft as lead. Rouge clair enamel Fine gold is opposed to it, for on it,
 gold run, makes it as soft as lead. Rouge clair enamel Fine gold is opposed to it, for on it, it
 run, makes it as soft as lead. Rouge clair enamel Fine gold is opposed to it, for on it, it remains yellowish.
 to it, for on it, it remains yellowish. But alloyed gold is more appropriate for it, such as that of écu
 for it, such as that of écu & pistolet. If Gold f is not put back on the fire, with its
 on the fire, with its own pale color, renders the enamel a dead color. Ma And for this occasion, once cut,
 fire to give it a reddish color, to make the enamels beautiful. Otherwise, they are matte. There is rouge clair which,
 make the enamels beautiful. Otherwise, they are matte. There is rouge clair which, once it is used with the arene, loses its
 is rouge clair which, once it is used with the arene , loses its beauty. Some can be found that have
 arene, loses its beauty. Some can be found that have grains of gold inside, and it is also the opinion of good goldsmiths
 of good goldsmiths that the good one is made with gold . Casting with gold Molds are reheated better & more
 that the good one is made with gold. Casting with gold Molds are reheated better & more surely in a closed
 that when goldsmiths want to cast some important piece of gold e that has cost a lot to model in wax,
 gold e that has cost a lot to model in wax , they put the molds in a pot & cover
 a pot & cover them, & fill the pot with earth , sustaining the fire that holds them together & tight.
 holds them together & tight. Then, they reheat the mold, earth & pot together, and when everything is quite red, they
 together, and when everything is quite red, they cast the gold . Fine gold does not run well, but alloyed gold
 and when everything is quite red, they cast the gold. Fine gold does not run well, but alloyed gold does. Gold &
 cast the gold. Fine gold does not run well, but alloyed gold does. Gold & silver do not sour, being entirely red
 Fine gold does not run well, but alloyed gold does. Gold & silver do not sour, being entirely red and hot,
 does not run well, but alloyed gold does. Gold & silver do not sour, being entirely red and hot, quenched in
 do not sour, being entirely red and hot, quenched in water . Gold is a quarter heavier than lead. When gold
 not sour, being entirely red and hot, quenched in water. Gold is a quarter heavier than lead. When gold reaches its
 hot, quenched in water. Gold is a quarter heavier than lead . When gold reaches its perfect heat, it is green
 in water. Gold is a quarter heavier than lead. When gold reaches its perfect heat, it is green like an emerald.
 gold reaches its perfect heat, it is green like an emerald . Take care that in the place where you want
 that in the place where you want to cast the gold , no lead, tin, or lime of these has fallen
 the place where you want to cast the gold, no lead , tin, or lime of these has fallen in the
 place where you want to cast the gold, no lead, tin , or lime of these has fallen in the forge.
 you want to cast the gold, no lead, tin, or lime of these has fallen in the forge. A means to
 is uso delicate and thin that the gate would struggle metal would run with difficulty, especially when it is curled, roll
 would run with difficulty, especially when it is curled, roll wax in little threads of this thickness and apply some with
 threads of this thickness and apply some with the hot iron wire , as is said, one at the end of the
 to make sure that with the end of the hot iron wire , the end of the wax barely touches the animal,
 end of the hot iron wire, the end of the wax barely touches the animal, for the sand of the second
 end of the wax barely touches the animal, for the sand of the second cast will not touch this part. But make sure that the
 this part. But make sure that the end of the wax arranges itself only at the edge of the empty part
 empty part of the first mold. Make also conduits of wax around the legs & around the contours of the body
 of crusting & removing anything from the mold, because the wax , being taken away, leaves the empty space all made.
 three notches, for this breaks up the fury of the metal and makes it flow with ease, without bubbling nor making
 & feeders, you can also put in small threads of wax which are joined to the body, in order that the
 which are joined to the body, in order that the metal goes more easily from one part to another & promptly
 you lead your gate & your vents without spoiling anything. Plaster When you v mold something to cast wax in it,
 spoiling anything. Plaster When you v mold something to cast wax in it, you mold in plaster alone, reheated after being
 mold something to cast wax in it, you mold in plaster alone, reheated after being pulverized. For, once reheated in stone,
 plaster alone, reheated after being pulverized. For, once reheated in stone , the outside is cooked & the inside stays almost
 the outside is cooked & the inside stays almost raw. Transparent grey plaster is not strong, but the one that, being tempered, is white & sets very quickly, is good. However, the grey I
 ne you do not temper, very thin & liquid, your plaster or your sand of noyau. Temper it immediately quickly after
 not temper, very thin & liquid, your plaster or your sand of noyau . Temper it immediately quickly after it has been reheated.
 after it has been reheated. + If you mold with plaster raw alone, reheat it nevertheless as said. One needs to
 raw alone, reheat it nevertheless as said. One needs to oil well the first mold. And when the second one has
 it is ready, soak it for a long time in water . And if it does not want to release, soak
 if it does not want to release, soak it in hot water , for cold water hardens it. Scimitars To know The
 not want to release, soak it in hot water, for cold water hardens it. Scimitars To know The workers from Damascus or
 or from Hungary, neighbors to the Turks, separate, in the ore , iron from steel. And, from this first steel, first
 from Hungary, neighbors to the Turks, separate, in the ore, iron from steel. And, from this first steel, first melted from
 neighbors to the Turks, separate, in the ore, iron from steel . And, from this first steel, first melted from its
 in the ore, iron from steel. And, from this first steel , first melted from its ore, they cast scimitar blades
 steel. And, from this first steel, first melted from its ore , they cast scimitar blades in sand sab which afterward
 first melted from its ore, they cast scimitar blades in sand sab which afterward cut the other iron without any difficulty,
 scimitar blades in sand sab which afterward cut the other iron without any difficulty, because any melted iron is harder than
 afterward cut the other iron without any difficulty, because any melted iron is harder than soft iron beaten from pigs & bars.
 without any difficulty, because any melted iron is harder than soft iron beaten from pigs & bars. Thus is the steel of
 soft iron beaten from pigs & bars. Thus is the steel of scimitars, but it is quite brittle. When one un-hilts
 tang that enters the hilt that it is cast in sand . Hearing from afar Make a small hole in the
 silent time, & you will easily hear the noise. And hot water softens it further. Cold water does not penetrate it like
 easily hear the noise. And hot water softens it further. Cold water does not penetrate it like it does with the mixed
 harder & the mixed one is more spongy. With this plaster , thus reheated as powder, one can cast medals that
 in Germany, on the houses. But take heed that the water be very hot, & if it is boiling, there is
 & if it is boiling, there is no danger. All plaster molds, alone or mixed, release in it. Secret Vipers and
 the two shells require several pieces. They are molded in plaster to be cast in sugar without making a gate as
 pieces. They are molded in plaster to be cast in sugar without making a gate as do all things that you
 making a gate as do all things that you want. Plaster for casting of wax When you want to cast in
 do all things that you want. Plaster for casting of wax When you want to cast in wax in the plaster
 for casting of wax When you want to cast in wax in the plaster mold, you must know as secret that
 wax When you want to cast in wax in the plaster mold, you must know as secret that there is need
 that there is need for your mold to be in hot water . Never does the animal come out so neatly than
 Never does the animal come out so neatly than in metal , because the wax sticks. But it is to model
 animal come out so neatly than in metal, because the wax sticks. But it is to model an animal as close
 needs to smooth well away all the scales, when for wax would enter there & not release well. In molding thus
 In molding thus the animal, flatten down the scales for wax &, on the contrary, rub them in reverse in order
 only be more visible. Also, do not wait for the wax to a bit cool completely to release it, but do
 it is released, & afterward you cut this off. + Alabaster , commonly called so, which is nevertheless plaster, is very
 this off. + Alabaster, commonly called so, which is nevertheless plaster , is very hard but it shrinks a lot. It
 to be very finely sieved. Molding fruits and animals in sugar Sugar is fatty when runny and brittle & breakable when
 be very finely sieved. Molding fruits and animals in sugar Sugar is fatty when runny and brittle & breakable when dry,
 large muscles, but awkwardly things fine & delicate. However, try well-clarified sugar . One needs to soak for one night or one
 needs to soak for one night or one day the plaster mold before casting the sugar, in order that it is
 night or one day the plaster mold before casting the sugar , in order that it is very full of water
 the sugar, in order that it is very full of water & does not imbibe the syrup. One needs also for
 is very full of water & does not imbibe the syrup . One needs also for it to be of easy
 also for it to be of easy release, for the sugar is sour & brittle. Finally, do not consider casting anything
 sour & brittle. Finally, do not consider casting anything in sugar that does not release well and that cannot be neatly
 all things. The grapes that are usually wanted cast in sugar can be made artificially or with wax or earth, or
 wanted cast in sugar can be made artificially or with wax or earth, or even with some grapes attached with some
 in sugar can be made artificially or with wax or earth , or even with some grapes attached with some melted
 or earth, or even with some grapes attached with some melted wax on some slab & other full thing, so that they
 very close together, encase half of them on in the clay slab and cast on the other half. And if some
 is not released, pluck it out. Note that neither in sugar , nor in metal, can a bunch which has light
 pluck it out. Note that neither in sugar, nor in metal , can a bunch which has light & separated grapes
 scattered & spread apart. To cast pears & apples in sugar , one ought not to make any gates, but rather,
 then join the two, and keep turning it until the sugar has set and is cold. One ought to mix nothing
 One ought to mix nothing in the mold apart from plaster , reheated as you know. + One needs for the
 mold to have soaked one day and one night in cold water for, and to be humid, when you cast in sugar.
 water for, and to be humid, when you cast in sugar . The sign that the syrup or the sugar melted
 humid, when you cast in sugar. The sign that the syrup or the sugar melted in water is sufficiently cooked to
 cast in sugar. The sign that the syrup or the sugar melted in water is sufficiently cooked to cast fruits, is when it makes
 not good, for it will always be humid. If the sugar attaches to it, one needs to throw some wheat starch
 the sugar attaches to it, one needs to throw some wheat starch in the mold or rub it with an almond. Crocum
 wheat starch in the mold or rub it with an almond . Crocum ferri It is much sooner made with iron
 starch in the mold or rub it with an almond. Crocum ferri It is much sooner made with iron rust than with
 an almond. Crocum ferri It is much sooner made with iron rust than with filings. For if the vinegar is good, you
 It is much sooner made with iron rust than with filings . For if the vinegar is good, you will see
 made with iron rust than with filings. For if the vinegar is good, you will see it boil with large bubbles
 it boil with large bubbles as if it on the rust , as if it were on the fire; on the
 rust, as if it were on the fire; on the filings , it does not boil unless it is put on
 not boil unless it is put on the fire or hot ashes . However, when the filings are passed through vinegar, &
 put on the fire or hot ashes. However, when the filings are passed through vinegar, & you have made it evaporate
 or hot ashes. However, when the filings are passed through vinegar , & you have made it evaporate & heat up,
 if you do this again for a second time, the vinegar will have much more strength, & the crocum will only
 time, the vinegar will have much more strength, & the crocum will only be finer for it, & redder. Those who
 it, & redder. Those who use it to cast in gold ven buy the ounce for forty or fifty sous. It
 mold less dense, and it drinks in and attracts the gold better. Plaster You can mold with it as large a
 dense, and it drinks in and attracts the gold better. Plaster You can mold with it as large a piece as
 you take your molds from large works & pieces of wood , it will not release well unless you boil make
 it will not release well unless you boil make your wood imbibe very hot wax. For the wood absorbs & drinks
 not release well unless you boil make your wood imbibe very hot wax . For the wood absorbs & drinks & in this
 boil make your wood imbibe very hot wax. For the wood absorbs & drinks & in this way attracts the plaster.
 wood absorbs & drinks & in this way attracts the plaster . You can assume the same thing for any other
 work. But the cure is to l’ab saturate l’ouvra with very hot wax the work on which you want to cast your plaster.
 wax the work on which you want to cast your plaster . For by this means, it will not drink it
 drink it up & will release very neatly. If the plaster shrinks, it will always make flashing. Seek the hard kind
 noyau Any plant which has a hard stem & like wood is very difficult to burn in the noyau, such as
 as asparagus, thyme, & similar things, because they stay as charcoal in the small conduits, & if they do not reduce
 small conduits, & if they do not reduce well into ashes , it is not possible to empty them from the
 pass through threads the plants & thees molds circle of earth , which is to receive the tempered sand, plusi This
 thees molds circle of earth, which is to receive the tempered sand , plusi This does not proceed from plants that have
 they do not rise par when you throw in your clear sand , as to give them venting when the mold is
 that they burn better. For what makes them stay as charcoal is that they burn in a closed fire & without
 Try, therefore, to thicken the main stem with a little melted wax , & let it cool, then mold it. And when
 & let it cool, then mold it. And when the wax melts, it airs it, the principal stem, with space &
 so that it burns better. Or else, anoint them with oil of petrol or sulfur , of turpentine, oil of brick & similar things, or
 else, anoint them with oil of petrol or sulfur, of turpentine , oil of brick & similar things, or aquafortis or
 anoint them with oil of petrol or sulfur, of turpentine, oil of brick & similar things, or aquafortis or eau-de-vie, or make sands
 sulfur, of turpentine, oil of brick & similar things, or aquafortis or eau-de-vie, or make sands with crocum, iron scales, loops
 turpentine, oil of brick & similar things, or aquafortis or eau-de-vie , or make sands with crocum, iron scales, loops of
 brick & similar things, or aquafortis or eau-de-vie, or make sands with crocum, iron scales, loops of iron, emery & things
 similar things, or aquafortis or eau-de-vie, or make sands with crocum , iron scales, loops of iron, emery & things that
 things, or aquafortis or eau-de-vie, or make sands with crocum, iron scales , loops of iron, emery & things that withstand several
 eau-de-vie, or make sands with crocum, iron scales, loops of iron , emery & things that withstand several days of great
 or make sands with crocum, iron scales, loops of iron, emery & things that withstand several days of great firing. Animal
 emery & things that withstand several days of great firing. Animal bones are not so difficult to burn & reduce to ashes,
 bones are not so difficult to burn & reduce to ashes , because once the flesh is burnt, the bones remain
 difficult to burn & reduce to ashes, because once the flesh is burnt, the bones remain loose & the weight of
 reduce to ashes, because once the flesh is burnt, the bones remain loose & the weight of the quicksilver makes them
 burnt, the bones remain loose & the weight of the quicksilver makes them break & disintegrate, once calcined & burnt. Asparagus
 & disintegrate, once calcined & burnt. Asparagus always stays as charcoal , like little pins. Try to take it, and thyme,
 growing, so that their stem is still thin. Molds of plaster for wax When your mold of plaster is done &
 that their stem is still thin. Molds of plaster for wax When your mold of plaster is done & dried, take
 thin. Molds of plaster for wax When your mold of plaster is done & dried, take heed that your mold be
 withered, makes wrinkles, where retire its scales are, where the plaster enters. And this not being of good release, the wax
 plaster enters. And this not being of good release, the wax animal would attaches itself & break & you would never
 perfect. Take heed also to make your gates for the wax very wide. Thus, & the gates should not be too
 from both sides & the animal is outside of it. Founders’ earth It is terre bolvene mixed with dung or cloth waste,
 the animal is outside of it. Founders’ earth It is terre bolvene mixed with dung or cloth waste, which withstands fire, which
 of it. Founders’ earth It is terre bolvene mixed with dung or cloth waste, which withstands fire, which you need to
 Founders’ earth It is terre bolvene mixed with dung or cloth waste , which withstands fire, which you need to always have
 fire, which you need to always have provision of to lute your molds that ont b are meant to serve for
 molds that ont b are meant to serve for casting silver & that one needs to reheat. Those where one needs
 needs to burn some flower or animal should not be luted until they have been reheated once, and they have been
 have been reheated once, and they have been cleaned of bones & ashes remaining inside, and, having removed the clamps, you
 reheated once, and they have been cleaned of bones & ashes remaining inside, and, having removed the clamps, you have opened
 halves to see if they are cracked. For there is plaster that is not so hard in the fire, one as
 one needs to avoid, either by by bathing well with eau-de-vie the animal before casting in the tempered sand, or mixing
 bathing well with eau-de-vie the animal before casting in the tempered sand , or mixing in more or less brick or alum,
 in the tempered sand, or mixing in more or less brick or alum, or reheating the brick more, or in place
 tempered sand, or mixing in more or less brick or alum , or reheating the brick more, or in place of
 in more or less brick or alum, or reheating the brick more, or in place of the brick, mixing in crucible
 or reheating the brick more, or in place of the brick , mixing in crucible bottoms & similar things which resist
 brick more, or in place of the brick, mixing in crucible bottoms & similar things which resist well in the fire. Having
 is neat & not cracked, put the clamps back & lute it with this aforesaid founders’ earth & sprinkle a little
 cracked, put the clamps back & lute it with this aforesaid founders’ earth & sprinkle a little sifted ash & let dry a
 it with this aforesaid founders’ earth & sprinkle a little sifted ash & let dry a little. But keep yourself from luting
 ash & let dry a little. But keep yourself from luting that they are not until the molds are cold. Those
 are not until the molds are cold. Those for casting silver , where there is nothing to burn inside, only need,
 only need, except when the gate & vents are made, luting & reheating once. Do not lute the end of the
 & vents are made, luting & reheating once. Do not lute the end of the mold where you want to make
 adjust a little the half-lit charcoals in the forge. The earth that founders use to braze or solder , which is sandy clay earth, or else clay mixed
 earth that founders use to braze or solder, which is sandy clay earth , or else clay mixed with sand, after having dried
 braze or solder, which is sandy clay earth, or else clay mixed with sand, after having dried & sieved & then
 which is sandy clay earth, or else clay mixed with sand , after having dried & sieved & then composed it,
 dried & sieved & then composed it, is good for luting your molds because this earth melts rather than cracks. And
 composed it, is good for luting your molds because this earth melts rather than cracks. And any earth that melts is
 molds because this earth melts rather than cracks. And any earth that melts is cannot be lacking in this. Iron wire
 any earth that melts is cannot be lacking in this. Iron wire to give it bond. Lute thickly your molds, & if
 be lacking in this. Iron wire to give it bond. Lute thickly your molds, & if they are small, you can
 reheat them immediately in a good fire, especially those of crocum . If the earth is good, & l does not
 in a good fire, especially those of crocum. If the earth is good, & l does not crack while reheating, &
 fire, & do not expose them hot to the air. Lute rather thickly in two or three layers, especially right in
 layers, especially right in the joints, in order that the silver does not come out of the mold. Reheat in a
 mold. Reheat in a reverberatory furnace. To test if your earth is good, before putting it on your mold, lute at
 your earth is good, before putting it on your mold, lute at the place of the fo wall of the forge
 withstands this without cracking, it will be good. Casting in silver and gold Wanting to melt, always put for these two
 without cracking, it will be good. Casting in silver and gold Wanting to melt, always put for these two metals a
 and gold Wanting to melt, always put for these two metals a small stone of pulverized borax at the bottom of
 Wanting to melt, always put for these two metals a small stone of pulverized borax at the bottom of the crucible & the gold and
 pulverized borax at the bottom of the crucible & the gold and silver on top. This makes it so that if
 at the bottom of the crucible & the gold and silver on top. This makes it so that if the crucible
 sour fumes, it will not impair these two metals. For gold in particular, this is good. If you have several molds
 gold in particular, this is good. If you have several molds to cast, do not think of filling them in one
 not think of filling them in one cast, for the metal would be cold. But having cast while hot & filling
 com put in the forge your crucible with a little ground borax at the bottom, & the silver that you want to
 with a little ground borax at the bottom, & the silver that you want to cast in your forge should be
 of the bellows hits the crucible, it will cool your silver rather than heating it. Make sure that the lit charcoals
 forge. In this way, it heats better. Therefore, when your silver starts to melt, if you recognize that it is brittle,
 & burst lumps, take the size of a hazelnut of arsenic & two times as much of raw tartar, coarsely pulverized , for in this way, they have more ability to
 heat. And occasionally throw it in the crucible on the silver , which clarifies it. But if you have some of
 if you have some of that crust sublimated on a metal substance, which looks like grain of steel, as previously described,
 sublimated on a metal substance, which looks like grain of steel , as previously described, take a little of that, leaving
 that, leaving # the others, & throw it on your melted silver . Some let the silver rest a little outside before
 & throw it on your melted silver. Some let the silver rest a little outside before casting. Gold and silver, melted
 Some let the silver rest a little outside before casting. Gold and silver, melted with the aforesaid things, scarcely become porous. For gold, one
 silver, melted with the aforesaid things, scarcely become porous. For gold , one does not need das much tin crocum as
 become porous. For gold, one does not need das much tin crocum as feather alum. Small molds are reheated quickly, but
 porous. For gold, one does not need das much tin crocum as feather alum. Small molds are reheated quickly, but big
 gold, one does not need das much tin crocum as feather alum . Small molds are reheated quickly, but big & small
 charcoals chases it from the exterior through the inside. All alloyed silver produces film, and all other metal as well. Silver does
 the inside. All alloyed silver produces film, and all other metal as well. Silver does not want to be uncovered when
 alloyed silver produces film, and all other metal as well. Silver does not want to be uncovered when melted. # Coarsely
 be uncovered when melted. # Coarsely pulverized A lump of adulterated silver vitrifies in red because of the arsenic & orpiment. You
 lump of adulterated silver vitrifies in red because of the arsenic & orpiment. You will see that it will torment it
 adulterated silver vitrifies in red because of the arsenic & orpiment . You will see that it will torment it &
 & when it is very white and polished, shining like quicksilver , prepare yourself to cast. And to this effect, have
 prepare yourself to cast. And to this effect, have some lean delicate sand , in a terrine or another vessel, that you would
 like to help yourself to. Make a pit in your sand , then, with your pincers, take your well-reddened mold &
 your well-reddened mold & place it in this pit of sand . Cover immediately the opening of your mold in order
 immediately the opening of your mold in order that no ash & dust enters inside, & then enclose it with sand
 ash & dust enters inside, & then enclose it with sand up to the edge of the gate & the vents.
 done, uncover your mold & throw on top of your well-melted silver , the size of a pea or thereabouts, some of
 this metallic grain, which will immediately spread through all your silver & make it boil & turn. Cast as soon as
 it is this that is the secret to making the silver run, since its crust heats it & clarifies it. You
 its crust heats it & clarifies it. You can cast silver finer than the alloy from the capital and like that of the real , but you must add this grain in. With all
 let yourself forget to put, before all things, a little borax in the melted silver, for even though goldsmiths do not
 to put, before all things, a little borax in the melted silver , for even though goldsmiths do not put any in,
 end of your forge. If you want to blow the ash that is around your mold when you hold it between
 it with the opening at the bottom, & blow. When silver is well melted, you can uncover it and blow with
 and blow with the small bellows, not continually like with gold , but only to cast out the charcoals in order
 continually like with gold, but only to cast out the charcoals in order to put in the substances that make it
 in the substances that make it run. Whitening of cast silver Because one commonly casts in base silver, & especially the
 run. Whitening of cast silver Because one commonly casts in base silver , & especially the Germans, and that such an alloy
 whiten their works, especially rough ones, because they only use common bullitoyre , which is tartar & common salt, nearly as much
 rough ones, because they only use common bullitoyre, which is tartar & common salt, nearly as much of one as the
 because they only use common bullitoyre, which is tartar & common salt , nearly as much of one as the other. But
 Having in my presence cast a little lizard with an alloy of teston , he made a greyish noi crust. And to clean
 clean it from it, he boiled it in the above-mentioned bullitoyre of tartar & pulverized common salt and mixed with common
 from it, he boiled it in the above-mentioned bullitoyre of tartar & pulverized common salt and mixed with common water, in
 boiled it in the above-mentioned bullitoyre of tartar & pulverized common salt and mixed with common water, in the fire of his
 bullitoyre of tartar & pulverized common salt and mixed with common water , in the fire of his forge. Once taken out,
 clean of this crust as he fancied, he burned some tartar in some paper until it was black & no longer
 crust as he fancied, he burned some tartar in some paper until it was black & no longer smoked. Then, he
 in some paper until it was black & no longer smoked . Then, he wetted the aforesaid tartar d with the
 black & no longer smoked. Then, he wetted the aforesaid tartar d with the water of bullitoyre, composed of salt &
 smoked. Then, he wetted the aforesaid tartar d with the water of bullitoyre , composed of salt & tartar, & covered all his
 aforesaid tartar d with the water of bullitoyre, composed of salt & tartar, & covered all his lizard with it. Then,
 d with the water of bullitoyre, composed of salt & tartar , & covered all his lizard with it. Then, he
 with it. Then, he put it between the live of charcoals of his forge & blew a little. When the lizard
 it out, let it cool, then reheated it in the bullitoyre . Next, he brushed it in clear water. + Note
 reheated it in the bullitoyre. Next, he brushed it in clear water . + Note that the bullitoyre for silver is never
 he brushed it in clear water. + Note that the bullitoyre for silver is never good in a crucible because the
 it in clear water. + Note that the bullitoyre for silver is never good in a crucible because the water, taking
 for silver is never good in a crucible because the water , taking the form of the f tartar, evaporates. But
 crucible because the water, taking the form of the f tartar , evaporates. But the vessel for boiling, being of copper,
 f tartar, evaporates. But the vessel for boiling, being of copper , is excellent for the whitening of silver & for
 boiling, being of copper, is excellent for the whitening of silver & for the mixture which colors gold. He took heed
 the whitening of silver & for the mixture which colors gold . He took heed not to let his water of
 which colors gold. He took heed not to let his water of tartar boil so much that it would have poured out on
 & put it back. He held as a secret this burned tartar put on top for base silver. Painting plants of metal
 as a secret this burned tartar put on top for base silver . Painting plants of metal If you are in a
 tartar put on top for base silver. Painting plants of metal If you are in a hurry, it would be better
 would be better to mix your color with a not-too-thick gum or because oil takes a long time to dry and
 to mix your color with a not-too-thick gum or because oil takes a long time to dry and runs if it
 you still want it done promptly, temper your color with glair beaten with peelings of the fig tree, and your work
 it done promptly, temper your color with glair beaten with peelings of the fig tree , and your work will soon be dry. But layer
 wormseed The pallid white of this herb is made from vert de terre , white lead or ceruse, a bit of massicot, stil
 white of this herb is made from vert de terre, white lead or ceruse, a bit of massicot, stil de grain yellow,
 herb is made from vert de terre, white lead or ceruse , a bit of massicot, stil de grain yellow, and
 vert de terre, white lead or ceruse, a bit of massicot , stil de grain yellow, and cendré of azure. Mix
 de terre, white lead or ceruse, a bit of massicot, stil de grain yellow , and cendré of azure. Mix & compose your color
 ceruse, a bit of massicot, stil de grain yellow, and cendré of azure . Mix & compose your color according to a natural
 hard & transparent. Its true color is made with good verdigris ground well with some good vinegar, if it is of
 color is made with good verdigris ground well with some good vinegar , if it is of lead or tin. And if
 ground well with some good vinegar, if it is of lead or tin. And if it is in some place darker,
 with some good vinegar, if it is of lead or tin . And if it is in some place darker, fumigate
 is in some place darker, fumigate this first color with sulfur , as you know. And if one needs to lighten
 to lighten and whiten, like under the throat, rub with coarse linen . The male ejects from its nature, which is at
 full of very venomous spurs. + Put a bit of metalline in your tin & your lizard will resemble silver. Molded
 venomous spurs. + Put a bit of metalline in your tin & your lizard will resemble silver. Molded roses They are
 of metalline in your tin & your lizard will resemble silver . Molded roses They are awkward to mold because the
 to obl avoid this, one needs to anoint them with wheat oil , which is very dessicative. And having quickly dried, it
 petals to be able to separate them & withstand the tempered sand . The same is done with flies, with pansies &
 for a long time Plant them on a slab of earth , arranging them with points of iron wire, as if
 on a slab of earth, arranging them with points of iron wire, as if you wanted to mold them, and they
 them, and they dry them in an oven after the bread has been taken out. And they always remain thus, as
 to give them their shape & put them in the sand , as with flowers, & promptly dry them in the
 which is hot enough, like when one takes out the bread . And it should stay there a day & a
 paintbrush or clean them with a brush. Animals cast in copper Try, d having cast them in copper, to burnish them
 Animals cast in copper Try, d having cast them in copper , to burnish them like gemstone foils, to see if
 d having cast them in copper, to burnish them like gemstone foils , to see if they take color similarly. Advice concerning
 which are pointed & are not very deep. For the metal runs more gently without being hindered by vapors & fumes.
 notched & lumpy, to draw out the fury of the metal . Spider molded on a leaf The very big ones
 them & lay them flat with some, anointing them with wheat oil . Kill them in vinegar & urine, like snakes &,
 with some, anointing them with wheat oil. Kill them in vinegar & urine, like snakes &, or in eau-de-vie, and then
 anointing them with wheat oil. Kill them in vinegar & urine , like snakes &, or in eau-de-vie, and then shape
 them in vinegar & urine, like snakes &, or in eau-de-vie , and then shape them on a well-made vine leaf
 can give them back their capricious hair with bourr the sieved fine hair of cloth waste , having anointed them with a with fish glue or
 hair of cloth waste, having anointed them with a with fish glue or similar. Their true color is of vinegar & verdet,
 with fish glue or similar. Their true color is of vinegar & verdet, & then fumigate them in various places with
 glue or similar. Their true color is of vinegar & verdet , & then fumigate them in various places with sulfur.
 & verdet, & then fumigate them in various places with sulfur . Having made your tourt clay slab, place on it
 them in various places with sulfur. Having made your tourt clay slab, place on it your vine leaf, and the dead
 spider in the middle, & pierce with a point of iron or latten wire the middle of the spider’s body & the leaf together.
 & the leaf together. Next, place diagonally small points of latten wire around the vine leaf to secure it well. Then fix,
 leaf to secure it well. Then fix, with a little melted wax and the point of a hot iron wire, the end
 a little melted wax and the point of a hot iron wire , the end of the legs, adapting them with the
 for the spider on the leaf and to prevent the sand from covering the spider from underneath the belly, furnish the
 tail & the bottom of the body with a little wax, melted & applied with the hot iron wire, as you know.
 with a little wax, melted & applied with the hot iron wire , as you know. In this way, when the leaf
 know. In this way, when the leaf burns & the wax is melted, there will remain two little holes in the
 will be the gate of the spider. 🜊 Once the wax is cool, scrape the excess with the point of a
 of the legs stay neat. Next, place the circle of earth around & cast your tempered sand, like for other things.
 Next, place the circle of earth around & cast your tempered sand , like for other things. In this manner, you will
 teeth to make them open their mouths wide. Then with iron points one attaches their feet to a small board, giving them
 Once thus attached by their feet with small rings of iron wire thus, one needs to suspend them in the sun with
 one places in the hollow of the eyes balls of lead or of wax, painted according to nature. One paints them
 the hollow of the eyes balls of lead or of wax , painted according to nature. One paints them with well-gummed
 of wax, painted according to nature. One paints them with well-gummed ink so that they seem to be jet. One gives it
 the fingers of the paws, stick in the jacket of clay . For reddening live crayfish, which will seem boiled Rub
 reddening live crayfish, which will seem boiled Rub them in quite good vinegar in which there should be a little eau-de-vie & hardly
 quite good vinegar in which there should be a little eau-de-vie & hardly any, & they can be served as cooked
 a single spider One needs to plant it on the clay slab, as has been said, on a vine leaf, and
 well if it is not flattened, having anointed it with wheat oil , which stiffens it & is quickly dry. Hairy things
 it & is quickly dry. Hairy things mix with the sand & do not burn well. Molding a single vine leaf
 vine leaf Plant it with the points of fine iron latten wire & place diagonally on the clay slab, then cast the
 of fine iron latten wire & place diagonally on the clay slab, then cast the first mold. When it has set,
 all of this, it leaves a hard crust, grey like ash . But because it does not mold in one piece
 snakes that release well, one removes this crust, not with quicksilver , which would do nothing, after it has been opened,
 the second cast, which enter in the nooks that the sand or the molded animal made. But, la because it has
 let it dry well before taking away the figure of wax , in order in order that the mold does not
 mold does not corrupt. Next, make a small lasagna of paste of such thickness as you would like, and having anointed
 such thickness as you would like, and having anointed with butter your the hollow of your first hollow mold, adapt the
 your the hollow of your first hollow mold, adapt the paste to it, and then make your second mold on top.
 second mold on top. If you were to anoint with oil , it would be absorbed & would not be as
 would be absorbed & would not be as appropriate as butter . Plants that are awkward to burn in the mold
 be absorbed & would not be as appropriate as butter. Plants that are awkward to burn in the mold Mold them
 it will be easier for you to take away the charcoal from inside. Trial Letters and molded paper Write with well
 take away the charcoal from inside. Trial Letters and molded paper Write with well gummed ink or with any color which
 inside. Trial Letters and molded paper Write with well gummed ink or with any color which has body & which does
 has body & which does not erase once moistened with eau-de-vie . Then, place your paper on a clay slab &
 does not erase once moistened with eau-de-vie. Then, place your paper on a clay slab & moisten it with eau-de-vie and
 once moistened with eau-de-vie. Then, place your paper on a clay slab & moisten it with eau-de-vie and cast on one
 your paper on a clay slab & moisten it with eau-de-vie and cast on one side & the other. For adorning
 out some design in half relief on a quite flat slate to adapt it to either round or flat things. And
 either round or flat things. And having cast it in mixed tin , quite thin, you can gild it with gold leaf
 having cast it in mixed tin, quite thin, you can gild it with gold leaf & adapt it to whatever you
 in mixed tin, quite thin, you can gild it with gold leaf & adapt it to whatever you want, and fill the
 and fill the vui bottom of the relief with small rubies , orpiment & little grains of diverse colors. For teaching
 fill the vui bottom of the relief with small rubies, orpiment & little grains of diverse colors. For teaching a dogei
 command it, to make it love you, give it some cheese that has been held under your armpit. Which must be
 if he is red-haired, & for the apprentice too. Molded waxes Figures of wax composed of ceruse & lead white are
 red-haired, & for the apprentice too. Molded waxes Figures of wax composed of ceruse & lead white are not for burning
 the apprentice too. Molded waxes Figures of wax composed of ceruse & lead white are not for burning & melting in
 too. Molded waxes Figures of wax composed of ceruse & lead white are not for burning & melting in a mold where
 & melting in a mold where you want to cast gold & silver, for this would sour it. And then, if
 in a mold where you want to cast gold & silver , for this would sour it. And then, if you
 it. And then, if you think about taking away these waxes composed of things coming from the metals reheated in the
 taking away these waxes composed of things coming from the metals reheated in the mold, you will be wrong, because, the
 the asperity of the fire making them boil ir, the wax goes away & the composition of the ceruse or other
 ir, the wax goes away & the composition of the ceruse or other metallic color attacks the mold. And for this
 reason, if you want to rough out something + Nota White wax is more delicate than the other & it does not
 delicate than the other & it does not leave any filth when you want to make noyau and mold hollow. in
 mold hollow. in a round form to cast it in gold and silver, put only in your wax what you prepare
 in a round form to cast it in gold and silver , put only in your wax what you prepare for
 cast it in gold and silver, put only in your wax what you prepare for this effect sino from all these
 this effect sino from all these drugs, except casting with melted sulfur , since it is melted, & candle smoke. The melted
 except casting with melted sulfur, since it is melted, & candle smoke . The melted sulfur goes to the bottom and nevertheless
 sulfur, since it is melted, & candle smoke. The melted sulfur goes to the bottom and nevertheless leaves its quality in
 to the bottom and nevertheless leaves its quality in the wax , making it melt promptly in the fire & giving
 melt in the fire this roughed out ci figure of wax . But if it is composed of ceruse or suchlike,
 ci figure of wax. But if it is composed of ceruse or suchlike, it is necessary that you put your mold
 suchlike, it is necessary that you put your mold in boiling water . For figures of flat wax, there is no need
 put your mold in boiling water. For figures of flat wax , there is no need for all this, for the
 wax, there is no need for all this, for the wax releases & does not stay in the la mold. When
 not stay in the la mold. When the cast of tin or lead becomes porous If your cast work has become
 in the la mold. When the cast of tin or lead becomes porous If your cast work has become porous, it
 has become porous, it can be repaired with very hard wax which you can gild afterward with silver or gold. To
 with very hard wax which you can gild afterward with silver or gold. To prevent this, if you cast thin, the
 hard wax which you can gild afterward with silver or gold . To prevent this, if you cast thin, the alloy
 you cast thin, the alloy of one ℥ d’est of lead for one lb of tin is good. But if you
 of one ℥ d’est of lead for one lb of tin is good. But if you cast with lead for a
 lb of tin is good. But if you cast with lead for a thick thing, one needs for one lb of
 needs for one lb of the latter, two ℥ of tin , for the lead, being fatty & weighty, carries more.
 lb of the latter, two ℥ of tin, for the lead , being fatty & weighty, carries more. From this alloy,
 keep their heat a long time, if there is little tin , it makes it porous. Your mold must not be
 gate without burning yourself. It is also necessary that your lead or tin be as if red. Melt first the lead
 burning yourself. It is also necessary that your lead or tin be as if red. Melt first the lead & then
 lead or tin be as if red. Melt first the lead & then the alloy of tin on top. And as
 red. Melt first the lead & then the alloy of tin on top. And as you want to cast, put a
 And as you want to cast, put a piece of rosin & then a little looking-glass tin. If you put too
 cast, put a piece of rosin & then a little looking-glass tin . If you put too much lead into the tin,
 then a little looking-glass tin. If you put too much lead into the tin, it does not run very thin. And
 looking-glass tin. If you put too much lead into the tin , it does not run very thin. And to know
 run very thin. And to know this, if l the tin cries loudly, it is a sign there is not too
 loudly, it is a sign there is not too much lead . If it cries weakly, that means that is there
 that is there is too much. Take heed You can solder with the l’es same substance, then repair it with the
 then repair it with the burin, file, chaple & suchlike. Tin is a metal that penetrates, that becomes porous & burns,
 with the burin, file, chaple & suchlike. Tin is a metal that penetrates, that becomes porous & burns, and is fanciful
 porous & burns, and is fanciful to use, more than gold and silver. Lead wants not only to be red, but
 burns, and is fanciful to use, more than gold and silver . Lead wants not only to be red, but also
 and is fanciful to use, more than gold and silver. Lead wants not only to be red, but also lively &
 be red, but also lively & runny & liquid as water , which is a sign of its perfect heat, &
 of a good cast, as much for it as for gold & silver, when it exits by the vents. not to
 good cast, as much for it as for gold & silver , when it exits by the vents. not to open
 for this sours it, makes it porous & contracts the tin , & makes the molded thing break. Also, do not
 thing break. Also, do not quench your hot mold in water , for this makes the le met tin or lead
 hot mold in water, for this makes the le met tin or lead contract. Mold made in two casts It is
 in water, for this makes the le met tin or lead contract. Mold made in two casts It is opened, once
 clean it; next, one puts the clamps on again, one lutes the mold & especially the joints, then one slowly dries
 mold & especially the joints, then one slowly dries the earth . And then, as it no longer smokes, one leaves
 slowly dries the earth. And then, as it no longer smokes , one leaves the mold to cool until you can
 without harm. Next, put in the presses or in the sand in a terrine, & cast in tin. For if you
 or in the sand in a terrine, & cast in tin . For if you were to cast in silver or
 cast in tin. For if you were to cast in silver or gold, it would be necessary that your mold be
 tin. For if you were to cast in silver or gold , it would be necessary that your mold be reheated
 red. If your mold f, through the fault of the plaster , retracts in the fire, you need to open it
 first reheating to tighten it again, & clamp it and lute again, and tighten again. Method for reheating the molds Light
 again, and tighten again. Method for reheating the molds Light charcoals in the forge, & then arrange them in rows in
 of the mold, which is the thickest and which. Your charcoals thus arranged, place your molds on top of them, &
 & by little, warm your oven, always adding some lit charcoal . And as long as the mold is damp, the
 charcoal. And as long as the mold is damp, the charcoals will be as if died down from below. But as
 it is dry on both, & it will no longer smoke . At that moment, invigorate the fire & cover it
 that moment, invigorate the fire & cover it with lit charcoals . And as it will begin to redden, do not
 as it will begin to redden, do not blow the charcoals with the little bellows, for this would make it blow
 when it is red, keep it well covered with lit charcoals & do not uncover it, for it would crack. Make
 When you want to reheat your molds, & be they luted or not, mark on the belly the place to put
 the place to put at the bottom, against the lit charcoals , que because if the ardor of the fire were
 is red at the bottom & that nothing appears black. Common sand from the mine In a frame, if one casts hot, it becomes porous;
 becomes porous; therefore, one only needs to dry it out. Crocum ferri Having d passed it through vinegar & reddened it in
 dry it out. Crocum ferri Having d passed it through vinegar & reddened it in the fire, I had it finely
 it in the fire, I had it finely ground on porphyry , until no roughness was perceived on the fingernail. Then,
 was perceived on the fingernail. Then, I wet it with very good vinegar & left it therea two or three days, stirring it
 Finally, I boiled it & reddened in the pot & crocum all together in the four à vent. It came back
 very finely between the fingers. I put some in the sand , a half as much as feather alum. I tempered
 put some in the sand, a half as much as feather alum . I tempered the sand quite thinly & molded out
 a half as much as feather alum. I tempered the sand quite thinly & molded out of it a very small
 which molded very neatly & delicately & very finely. The crocum ferri does not render the mold harder, but it firms it.
 it with the fingernail, it is a sign that the crocum is good, very fine, & well prepared. The quantity cannot
 cannot spoil the mold, because it is a friend to gold . And I believe that silver would come out well.
 it is a friend to gold. And I believe that silver would come out well. And that the mold, through this
 mold, through this means, does not crack. Make it from filings of needles . I have tried to make it so the molds
 thus do not make flashing. It is better made with distilled vinegar . One can put some amongst the molds, where you
 put some amongst the molds, where you want to cast silver , for it firms the molds, and you will find
 for flat medals, it withstands several casts. The one of steel fillings & needles is redder & better. Gilding animals cast in silver You
 one of steel fillings & needles is redder & better. Gilding animals cast in silver You can gild them with amalgam
 & needles is redder & better. Gilding animals cast in silver You can gild them with amalgam without spoiling any of
 redder & better. Gilding animals cast in silver You can gild them with amalgam without spoiling any of the features, if
 Gilding animals cast in silver You can gild them with amalgam without spoiling any of the features, if they are made
 spoiling any of the features, if they are made of silver . Hard wax for imprinting seals It is made from
 any of the features, if they are made of silver. Hard wax for imprinting seals It is made from white wax, which
 silver. Hard wax for imprinting seals It is made from white wax , which is harder than the other, & one mixes
 which is harder than the other, & one mixes in very finely ground ceruse or lead white until it becomes as hard as you fancy u, adding
 as you fancy u, adding to it a drop of turpentine to bind it. Next, mix in whatever color you want.
 Next, mix in whatever color you want. This is the wax goldsmiths use for modeling. Feet of smalls female lizards for
 goldsmiths use for modeling. Feet of smalls female lizards for gold and silver Because the feet of these, which are very
 for modeling. Feet of smalls female lizards for gold and silver Because the feet of these, which are very small, are
 & the bottom of the feet, cover them lightly with wax & then cast the second mold. And the wax being
 with wax & then cast the second mold. And the wax being removed, it will leave a g little gate for
 Marks from the points
 Marks from the points of iron wire which are found on the head of the animal L
 hole some moisture and a little exudation, which hinders the sand from covering the point & there always remains some little
 this, you can plant in the slab of earth an iron point, arro cleaned & rounded at the top end, &
 top end, & on this end place there a little hard wax or du a little mastic or cement and, by means
 place there a little hard wax or du a little mastic or cement and, by means of the hot iron wire,
 a little hard wax or du a little mastic or cement and, by means of the hot iron wire, hold in
 little mastic or cement and, by means of the hot iron wire, hold in place the throat of the animal, which
 the opened your mold to clean it by blowing with quicksilver , which is used only in enclosed molds, close the
 again, but not in the first place where they were. Lute again & dry again. But if it is for a
 dry again. But if it is for a cast with silver or gold, lute with the remainder of the sand that
 But if it is for a cast with silver or gold , lute with the remainder of the sand that was
 if it is for a cast with silver or gold, lute with the remainder of the sand that was used, for
 with silver or gold, lute with the remainder of the sand that was used, for it is the safest. If your
 is broken, you can adjust it with some clamps & lute . X Bubbles and little holes which are found in
 blows strongly enough when casting on the tempered & cast sand in order to dissipate these small bubbles. When the sand
 sand in order to dissipate these small bubbles. When the sand is cast thickly, it readily becomes porous Thing that does
 it with chisels in one go, in order that the blood does not fall on the mold & does not create
 does not fall on the mold & does not create filth , which, once reheated, is difficult to remove. Next, put
 it dries promptly & retracts before making a crust or mold on the mold. + When you mold small female lizards
 in the end, you can put them back with some wax . Various animals entwined You can entwine a snake entwine
 raised, put underneath the wall lizard se an elevation of earth suited to support it. And if you put your mold
 Also, do not forget to attach & join with some wax s, finely applied with hot iron wire, all the parts
 & join with some wax s, finely applied with hot iron wire , all the parts of the animal which pass one
 those that you notice are not well fixed on the wax earthen slab, in order that the tempered sand does not
 that you notice are not well fixed on the wax earthen slab, in order that the tempered sand does not remove
 fixed on the wax earthen slab, in order that the tempered sand does not remove it. And it is to avoid putting
 feet, the nails of which you will enter into the clay slab, in order that they remain secure. When you have
 do not forget to put small thin s slabs of wax at the end of the lizard’s legs. But, if it
 if it is a small wall lizard, lightly cover with wax the entire bottom of the foot, and and this the
 the entire bottom of the foot, and and this the wax , being removed after the second cast, leaves a cavity
 cast, leaves a cavity which fills these small fingers with metal , & then one repairs them. Take heed therefore to
 one repairs them. Take heed therefore to attach well with wax the parts of the animal which pass one over the
 which pass one over the other, in order that the wetted sand entering between two does not take it away. And if
 dead or because it was not well attached with the iron points or with melted wax, and it does not have
 was not well attached with the iron points or with melted wax , and it does not have the thickness that it
 the mold. And cast promptly on top of the same tempered sand , which will enter in these openings & mold &
 & attach to the other. But, one will need to lute this place well afterward. Sand of crocum One can use
 But, one will need to lute this place well afterward. Sand of crocum One can use the mixture of crocum ferri in molds
 will need to lute this place well afterward. Sand of crocum One can use the mixture of crocum ferri in molds
 afterward. Sand of crocum One can use the mixture of crocum ferri in molds for silver as well as for gold, for
 can use the mixture of crocum ferri in molds for silver as well as for gold, for it firms them &
 crocum ferri in molds for silver as well as for gold , for it firms them & keeps them from cracking
 it would withstand bien de several casts, which, however, for gold & silver is hardly practiced. Try, for lead & tin,
 withstand bien de several casts, which, however, for gold & silver is hardly practiced. Try, for lead & tin, crocum. For
 however, for gold & silver is hardly practiced. Try, for lead & tin, crocum. For making ☀ run Verdigris & sal
 gold & silver is hardly practiced. Try, for lead & tin , crocum. For making ☀ run Verdigris & sal ammoniac,
 & silver is hardly practiced. Try, for lead & tin, crocum . For making ☀ run Verdigris & sal ammoniac, as
 hardly practiced. Try, for lead & tin, crocum. For making ☀ run Verdigris & sal ammoniac, as much of one as
 Try, for lead & tin, crocum. For making ☀ run Verdigris & sal ammoniac, as much of one as the other,
 lead & tin, crocum. For making ☀ run Verdigris & sal ammoniac , as much of one as the other, borax &
 & sal ammoniac, as much of one as the other, borax & saltpeter, as much of one as the other. But
 ammoniac, as much of one as the other, borax & saltpeter , as much of one as the other. But the
 as much of one as the other. But the s borax & sel armo saltpeter together must only weigh half of
 as the other. But the s borax & sel armo saltpeter together must only weigh half of the others, that is
 others, that is to say, as much together as the verdigris . Grind them finely into powder on marble, then grind
 together as the verdigris. Grind them finely into powder on marble , then grind them again with some good strong vinegar
 into powder on marble, then grind them again with some good strong vinegar until it is fine, like a couleur and verdet ground
 some good strong vinegar until it is fine, like a couleur and verdet ground in oil. Next, leave it to dry
 strong vinegar until it is fine, like a couleur and verdet ground in oil. Next, leave it to dry on its
 it is fine, like a couleur and verdet ground in oil . Next, leave it to dry on its own, if
 is to cast very gec hot, s especially the great metals . For casting of gold in large works One needs
 gec hot, s especially the great metals. For casting of gold in large works One needs not only to clamp the
 molds well but to fortify them with good bindings of iron wire or little bands made for this. Before casting in gold,
 wire or little bands made for this. Before casting in gold , clean your forge well of lead & tin. Secret
 this. Before casting in gold, clean your forge well of lead & tin. Secret for soldering gold and silver in small
 casting in gold, clean your forge well of lead & tin . Secret for soldering gold and silver in small works
 clean your forge well of lead & tin. Secret for soldering gold and silver in small works If some piece of
 your forge well of lead & tin. Secret for soldering gold and silver in small works If some piece of small
 well of lead & tin. Secret for soldering gold and silver in small works If some piece of small foot does
 piece of small foot does not come out well in gold or silver, by fault of not having made a gate
 small foot does not come out well in gold or silver , by fault of not having made a gate of
 silver, by fault of not having made a gate of wax underneath, beat some soldering gold very thinly, then cut it
 not having made a gate of wax underneath, beat some soldering gold very thinly, then cut it in as many small spangles
 many small spangles as you need. Take some of this phlegm or white thick which saliva that is found on the
 spangles as you need. Take some of this phlegm or white thick which saliva that is found on the teeth , & with the point of a burin, apply it
 a burin, apply it to the place you want to solder , & place there a little spangle of gold; &
 the place you want to solder, & place there a little spangle of gold ; & next, with a little fat earth wetted with
 a little spangle of gold; & next, with a little fat earth wetted with saliva, make a small layer on the opposite
 gold; & next, with a little fat earth wetted with saliva , make a small layer on the opposite side to
 a small layer on the opposite side to hold the solder better. Next, pulverize on top a little borax & put
 hold the solder better. Next, pulverize on top a little borax & put in the fire. Boiled water of quince seed
 on top a little borax & put in the fire. Boiled water of quince seed & others also. Couleur for gold or mixture Verdigris &
 the fire. Boiled water of quince seed & others also. Couleur for gold or mixture Verdigris & sal ammoniac, as much
 Boiled water of quince seed & others also. Couleur for gold or mixture Verdigris & sal ammoniac, as much of one
 quince seed & others also. Couleur for gold or mixture Verdigris & sal ammoniac, as much of one as the other,
 & others also. Couleur for gold or mixture Verdigris & sal ammoniac , as much of one as the other, & as
 as the other, & as much as a bean of saltpeter . For if you put a quantity in it, it
 it all boil so much that it would boil over. Saltpeter is only put in to make it boil, in order
 that one recognizes when the substance has boiled enough. This couleur , put on brittle melted gold, renders it soft immediately.
 when the substance has boiled enough. This couleur, put on brittle melted gold , renders it soft immediately. Softening gold Gate It is
 put on brittle melted gold, renders it soft immediately. Softening gold Gate It is necessary that it be longish with regard
 some openings in order to prevent the fury of the metal & make it run gently. One also needs to c
 the tail or other delicate part, in order that the metal flows everywhere & carries itself from e l one part
 the other. Do not forget to make a gate of wax for the feet of lizards & delicate things like this.
 several places. Therefore place your leaf bottom down on the clay slab, and secure it with small points, nevertheless leaving it
 it its natural curve. And make a notch in the clay to hide the stem at the first cast, which, once
 bristle brushes & fix it with a small mound of clay . Next, make several gates around the leaf with wax,
 of clay. Next, make several gates around the leaf with wax , as you know, & gec make the gate thin
 lumpy. The vine leaf is painted with green made of stil de grain yellow & verd de terre. You can cast on the leaf
 painted with green made of stil de grain yellow & verd de terre . You can cast on the leaf a spider or
 spider or frog & whatever you will like. Casting in ☼ Take a crucible with a capacity suitable for what you
 you want to put in it, coarsely pestle a little borax & put it at the bottom, then the ☼ on
 little borax & put it at the bottom, then the ☼ on top. Arrange the crucible on the charcoals of the
 then the ☼ on top. Arrange the crucible on the charcoals of the forge in such a way that the wind
 the forge, in order that it can be surrounded with charcoal . Let the said crucible reheat until it is quite
 it heats well better. And nevertheless, blow by when the gold is melted, blow on top with small bellows, for the
 is melted, blow on top with small bellows, for the gold will become brittle & take on a crust. And as
 inside. Throw in it the size of a bean of borax , & blow inside in jolts with the small bellows.
 in jolts with the small bellows. But if there is charcoal inside, blow a little stronger to make it go out.
 little stronger to make it go out. And if the gold smokes & swirls, put some more borax in and note
 stronger to make it go out. And if the gold smokes & swirls, put some more borax in and note blow
 And if the gold smokes & swirls, put some more borax in and note blow on top, making sure that, if
 hot enough, throw in on top, in the crucible, the couleur , composed, as said before, of verdet, saltpeter, sal ammoniac
 in the crucible, the couleur, composed, as said before, of verdet , saltpeter, sal ammoniac & borax, a little. And let
 the crucible, the couleur, composed, as said before, of verdet, saltpeter , sal ammoniac & borax, a little. And let rest
 crucible, the couleur, composed, as said before, of verdet, saltpeter, sal ammoniac & borax, a little. And let rest blow always with
 composed, as said before, of verdet, saltpeter, sal ammoniac & borax , a little. And let rest blow always with the
 let rest blow always with the small bellows, and the gold will become shiny like If you cast in gold some
 the gold will become shiny like If you cast in gold some important piece, lute your mold with the same sand
 shiny like If you cast in gold some important piece, lute your mold with the same sand where there is there
 gold some important piece, lute your mold with the same sand where there is there is some crocum. If you want
 with the same sand where there is there is some crocum . If you want to cast some large work in
 crocum. If you want to cast some large work in gold or which is important, make at the foot of the
 you can hold your mold in the completely n red sand . One can cast two or three lb of gold.
 red sand. One can cast two or three lb of gold . a mirror. And when you want to cast, put
 you want to cast, put again a little of the couleur & let rest a little, always blowing with the small
 the moulets or in a crucible full of very hot sand , & cast. And when it has set, throw, if
 And when it has set, throw, if you want, in water . For gold does not get damaged like tin, which
 it has set, throw, if you want, in water. For gold does not get damaged like tin, which jumps. To melt
 want, in water. For gold does not get damaged like tin , which jumps. To melt gold in ingots, it is
 does not get damaged like tin, which jumps. To melt gold in ingots, it is of no importance to gec blow
 with the little bellows. For large works, the crucible of sand needs to be put in a fourneau à vent, to
 become entirely red at the end of the fournaise. The gold that the wind hits or that one forges becomes black.
 hits or that one forges becomes black. But a little aquafortis uncovers it immediately. If you have some work to forge
 it immediately. If you have some work to forge of latten sol on latten, as one does small statues, put between
 immediately. If you have some work to forge of latten sol on latten, as one does small statues, put between the
 you have some work to forge of latten sol on latten , as one does small statues, put between the gold
 on latten, as one does small statues, put between the gold & the latten a plate of lead. And before reheating
 one does small statues, put between the gold & the latten a plate of lead. And before reheating the gold &
 small statues, put between the gold & the latten a plate of lead . And before reheating the gold & putting it again
 the latten a plate of lead. And before reheating the gold & putting it again in the fire, soak in aquafortis
 gold & putting it again in the fire, soak in aquafortis & it will be soft. It is enough that the
 much as can be done, to embrace the medal. DEsm Enamelling thin works Goldsmiths scrape gold leaf with the brim of
 to embrace the medal. DEsm Enamelling thin works Goldsmiths scrape gold leaf with the brim of a burin, & then set the
 with the brim of a burin, & then set the enamel down on it. For casting in latten The latten from
 then set the enamel down on it. For casting in latten The latten from skillets in which one makes the mush
 the enamel down on it. For casting in latten The latten from skillets in which one makes the mush for little children , which is soft, is appropriate for the cast. Some
 is soft, is appropriate for the cast. Some say that German tokens are contain a lot of calamine. However, as they are
 Some say that German tokens are contain a lot of calamine . However, as they are thin, the calamine exhales out
 a lot of calamine. However, as they are thin, the calamine exhales out when melting them, as it does in all
 out when melting them, as it does in all meta remelted latten , which, through melting again, would return to red. However,
 latten, which, through melting again, would return to red. However, fresh calamine & on its own, put again on melted latten, makes
 fresh calamine & on its own, put again on melted latten , makes it run & cast neatly, because the one
 neatly, because the one that is in the remelted de latten is half corrupted from its nature, & makes it become
 & blusters because it is disposed to exhaling. Therefore, use calamine alone, on its own, very recent, on the melted latten.
 calamine alone, on its own, very recent, on the melted latten . Take heed to cast very hot & that your
 very hot & that your mold be red like for gold , silver, copper & metal. If you cast with recent
 hot & that your mold be red like for gold, silver , copper & metal. If you cast with recent calamine,
 & that your mold be red like for gold, silver, copper & metal. If you cast with recent calamine, keep away
 your mold be red like for gold, silver, copper & metal . If you cast with recent calamine, keep away from
 gold, silver, copper & metal. If you cast with recent calamine , keep away from the fumes, for they are pernicious.
 the fumes, for they are pernicious. I wanted to use German tokens to cast medals & took thirty & xii nails of
 German tokens to cast medals & took thirty & xii nails of rosette , like for chairs, which are of soft latten. This
 xii nails of rosette, like for chairs, which are of soft latten . This substance, containing a lot of calamine, like all
 are of soft latten. This substance, containing a lot of calamine , like all strong yellow latten, has made great fumes,
 latten. This substance, containing a lot of calamine, like all strong yellow latten , has made great fumes, which is what prevents latten
 yellow latten, has made great fumes, which is what prevents latten from running and makes it porous. Make many vents &
 porous. Make many vents & cast very hot, that your latten is white like water or melted silver & similar to
 & cast very hot, that your latten is white like water or melted silver & similar to a very polished steel
 very hot, that your latten is white like water or melted silver & similar to a very polished steel mirror. The second
 water or melted silver & similar to a very polished steel mirror. The second fusion comes out better, for what calamine
 steel mirror. The second fusion comes out better, for what calamine there is has been exhaled and does not make fumes
 with calamine fumes, which embrace & receive the second one. Sal ammoniac alone, put in latten, renders it neat & shiny. Huile
 & receive the second one. Sal ammoniac alone, put in latten , renders it neat & shiny. Huile tingente even more
 ammoniac alone, put in latten, renders it neat & shiny. Huile tingente even more so. It does not need any sand other
 Huile tingente even more so. It does not need any sand other than the previous en noyau & that the mold
 en noyau & that the mold be red like for gold . Make many vents. And if you cast yellowed latten
 like for gold. Make many vents. And if you cast yellowed latten with the prepared tutty, you will not have any bad
 many vents. And if you cast yellowed latten with the prepared tutty , you will not have any bad fumes. This metal
 prepared tutty, you will not have any bad fumes. This metal is very fanciful to cast because of the calamine smoke,
 This metal is very fanciful to cast because of the calamine smoke , and one ought not to leave it pass rest
 a little bit outside the fire, like some do with silver , for it is immediately cold when it feels the
 the wind. It always leaves some type of tail, like glass , when you cast it. Casters do not usually take
 when you cast it. Casters do not usually take that very yellow latten , because of the calamine passed through the fire. But
 not usually take that very yellow latten, because of the calamine passed through the fire. But when wanting to cast red
 calamine passed through the fire. But when wanting to cast red copper , they yellow it either with fresh calamine or with
 wanting to cast red copper, they yellow it either with fresh calamine or with prepared tutty. Wanting to cast, one purifies it
 copper, they yellow it either with fresh calamine or with prepared tutty . Wanting to cast, one purifies it well of charcoal
 prepared tutty. Wanting to cast, one purifies it well of charcoal with a stalk of copper or iron, and one covers
 one purifies it well of charcoal with a stalk of copper or iron, and one covers it with a cloth soaked
 it well of charcoal with a stalk of copper or iron , and one covers it with a cloth soaked in
 of copper or iron, and one covers it with a cloth soaked in pig fat mixed with saltpeter or sal ammoniac,
 iron, and one covers it with a cloth soaked in pig fat mixed with saltpeter or sal ammoniac, to keep it from
 it with a cloth soaked in pig fat mixed with saltpeter or sal ammoniac, to keep it from the wind &
 a cloth soaked in pig fat mixed with saltpeter or sal ammoniac , to keep it from the wind & from cooling.
 it from the wind & from cooling. For casting in red copper Pure red copper from a cauldron or other thin works
 the wind & from cooling. For casting in red copper Pure red copper from a cauldron or other thin works is appropriate for casting. And to make it run, throw
 for casting. And to make it run, throw in some sal ammoniac , & when you are ready to cast, put in
 when you are ready to cast, put in a little fine tin & very little. And note that one needs to cast
 & very little. And note that one needs to cast copper very hot in the mold, which needs to also be
 needs to also be inflamed & entirely red like for gold , silver, latten & metal. You will recognize that it
 to also be inflamed & entirely red like for gold, silver , latten & metal. You will recognize that it is
 also be inflamed & entirely red like for gold, silver, latten & metal. You will recognize that it is hot enough
 inflamed & entirely red like for gold, silver, latten & metal . You will recognize that it is hot enough when
 smooth, thin & shiny like a mirror of cu of steel , newly polished, or like melted silver. Keep it from
 a mirror of cu of steel, newly polished, or like melted silver . Keep it from the wind, for it will quickly
 the cast with tows or to keep it from cooling. Red copper comes out more neatly than latten, which has strong smoke
 it from cooling. Red copper comes out more neatly than latten , which has strong smoke that prevents it from running.
 Red copper comes out more neatly than latten, which has strong smoke that prevents it from running. I molded it en noyau
 it en noyau neatly like the principal & thin like paper . It is necessary that it be so hot that
 hot that it is white & shiny & polished like melted silver and like a mirror. I cast it in the same
 and like a mirror. I cast it in the same sand as above en noyau. Copper and latten are the longest
 cast it in the same sand as above en noyau. Copper and latten are the longest to melt, longer than any
 in the same sand as above en noyau. Copper and latten are the longest to melt, longer than any other metal,
 latten are the longest to melt, longer than any other metal , especially red copper. But also it flows & comes
 the longest to melt, longer than any other metal, especially red copper . But also it flows & comes out very neat,
 that it is cast very hot, that it is like water . Removing your mold from the fire, plant it in
 des a brazier that fills a pot or a vessel. Huile tingente to make metals run Take some ☿ sublimate of Venice,
 fills a pot or a vessel. Huile tingente to make metals run Take some ☿ sublimate of Venice, true & not
 a vessel. Huile tingente to make metals run Take some ☿ sublimate of Venice , true & not arsenic sublimate, a pea, aes ustum,
 run Take some ☿ sublimate of Venice, true & not arsenic sublimate , a pea, aes ustum, a pea, sal ammoniac, a
 sublimate of Venice, true & not arsenic sublimate, a pea, aes ustum , a pea, sal ammoniac, a pea. Pulverize everything separately,
 & not arsenic sublimate, a pea, aes ustum, a pea, sal ammoniac , a pea. Pulverize everything separately, & next mix everything
 pea. Pulverize everything separately, & next mix everything in a glass bottle & put on hot ash. You will see that
 next mix everything in a glass bottle & put on hot ash . You will see that everything dissolves like wax, making
 on hot ash. You will see that everything dissolves like wax , making many colors. Let it everything set & put
 everything set & put a little of it on each melted metal , & it will run marvelously. Founders of large casts
 marvelously. Founders of large casts for statues throw in much tartar to clean it of its filth & nastiness, & much
 statues throw in much tartar to clean it of its filth & nastiness, & much sal ammoniac to render it thin
 in much tartar to clean it of its filth & nastiness , & much sal ammoniac to render it thin &
 to clean it of its filth & nastiness, & much sal ammoniac to render it thin & neat. And when they want
 And when they want to cast, they put in much tin . The cold & humidity strongly disagrees with it, which
 of the founder, for one only needs a spring of water in the pit to lose everything. Clamps They are made
 lose everything. Clamps They are made with flat pincers of iron wire , reheated & refolded, then beaten at the ends on
 the molds for reheating. Therefore, use some new ones. Tempering sand for molds of flat medals Flat medals of wax or metal are oiled very lightly
 Tempering sand for molds of flat medals Flat medals of wax or metal are oiled very lightly & then are touched
 for molds of flat medals Flat medals of wax or metal are oiled very lightly & then are touched with a
 of flat medals Flat medals of wax or metal are oiled very lightly & then are touched with a paintbrush with
 very lightly & then are touched with a paintbrush with eau-de-vie . And in order that the mold, wetted with water,
 with eau-de-vie. And in order that the mold, wetted with water , takes without refusing the oiled thing, one heats the
 that the mold, wetted with water, takes without refusing the oiled thing, one heats the water well for tempering the sand,
 water, takes without refusing the oiled thing, one heats the water well for tempering the sand, for with cold water it
 oiled thing, one heats the water well for tempering the sand , for with cold water it would refuse. Medals are
 heats the water well for tempering the sand, for with cold water it would refuse. Medals are oiled because they are not
 sand, for with cold water it would refuse. Medals are oiled because they are not malleable & thus could break the
 And animals, which are malleable, do not want to be oiled . Hot water should be of such heat that you
 animals, which are malleable, do not want to be oiled. Hot water should be of such heat that you cannot hold your
 hold your finger there without feeling strong heat. Temper your sand thicker for flat medals & solids than for lizards &
 medals & solids than for lizards & fine things. Your sand having set, clean & scrape your mold on one side
 This done, dip the reverse of the first mold in water , oil it, & thus it will not be imbibed.
 done, dip the reverse of the first mold in water, oil it, & thus it will not be imbibed. Rub the
 not be imbibed. Rub the reverse of the medal with eau-de-vie & secondly cast, tempering in hot water. If you have
 of the medal with eau-de-vie & secondly cast, tempering in hot water . If you have molded a medal en noyau, having
 of the head, which is opposite. Take care not to oil your medal too much, for if the oil seeps out,
 not to oil your medal too much, for if the oil seeps out, it diverts the sand from becoming smooth &
 much, for if the oil seeps out, it diverts the sand from becoming smooth & amassing, & makes it wavy &
 the medal of the p with the point of an oiled paintbrush, & then spread the oil everywhere. Make especially sure
 the point of an oiled paintbrush, & then spread the oil everywhere. Make especially sure that the gate is the widest
 the entrance of the gate. If you want to cast gold , silver, copper, or latten, it is necessary that they
 entrance of the gate. If you want to cast gold, silver , copper, or latten, it is necessary that they be
 of the gate. If you want to cast gold, silver, copper , or latten, it is necessary that they be perfectly
 gate. If you want to cast gold, silver, copper, or latten , it is necessary that they be perfectly red &
 a way that the animal burns. But if it has thick bones , it is troublesome to pull out & ☿ often
 has thick bones, it is troublesome to pull out & ☿ often breaks some fine things by its weightiness. One does
 some fine things by its weightiness. One does not put ☿ in molds that can open. This readily happens with flowers,
 break. This is done after the gate is made. The scrapings of the mold can still be used, using them in place of brick,
 mold can still be used, using them in place of brick , after having reheated them, & also the pieces of
 place of brick, after having reheated them, & also the pieces of the molds that have been used . One lutes with it also important things, like works
 the pieces of the molds that have been used. One lutes with it also important things, like works of gold or
 One lutes with it also important things, like works of gold or silver. One also reheats it, & prepares it with
 with it also important things, like works of gold or silver . One also reheats it, & prepares it with se
 silver. One also reheats it, & prepares it with se sal ammoniac water , as spat from Germany, & it is excellent sand
 it, & prepares it with se sal ammoniac water, as spat from Germany , & it is excellent sand for frames for all
 sal ammoniac water, as spat from Germany, & it is excellent sand for frames for all metals. The molds of things which
 Germany, & it is excellent sand for frames for all metals . The molds of things which one needs to burn
 molds of crayfish, crabs, stag beetles, portraits & pieces of sulfured black wax , which do not release well. One ought not to
 do not release well. One ought not to mold on brick or wood because they l’ea drink & attract water too
 release well. One ought not to mold on brick or wood because they l’ea drink & attract water too soon, and
 on brick or wood because they l’ea drink & attract water too soon, and do not allow the sand to set.
 & attract water too soon, and do not allow the sand to set. It would never be better than on a
 to set. It would never be better than on a fresh clay slab. Yet, I have experienced that grey earth dries the
 on a fresh clay slab. Yet, I have experienced that grey earth dries the mold too soon. The yellow is better. For
 have experienced that grey earth dries the mold too soon. The yellow is better. For medals and flat things it is necessary
 For medals and flat things it is necessary that the sand be thick enough wet, because it sets quickly. And when
 thick enough wet, because it sets quickly. And when the sand is thus thick, one can hit and shake the table
 is placed, to make it run everywhere. But when the sand is thin, like for flowers and plants, one ought not
 not to hit, nor when there is something attached with wax or another thing that is subject to coming off, like
 off, like crayfish legs or similar things. And if the sand is, by chance, too thick, you promptly put in it
 chance, too thick, you promptly put in it some pour water . Having put the sand in water, it examine that
 promptly put in it some pour water. Having put the sand in water, it examine that it is thick at the
 in it some pour water. Having put the sand in water , it examine that it is thick at the bottom
 thickest at the end in order to fortify the mold. Talcum mixed in the molds I took the one from which
 I took the one from which I had pulled the oil . I crushed it very finely even more s in
 I crushed it very finely even more s in a steel mortar with a pestle, very lumpy like a file. I
 in a cottony & downy powder. I mixed it with sand & mixed it together & cast it en noyau. It
 ought not to doubt that it holds in the fire. Gold cast very thinly When goldsmiths have something to solder promptly
 fire. Gold cast very thinly When goldsmiths have something to solder promptly and do not have leisure to forge it, they
 do not have leisure to forge it, they melt some gold and then throw it on a cloth or other things
 they melt some gold and then throw it on a cloth or other things that withstand the fire, and they flatten
 up very thin & even receives the impression of the cloth . Fine gold, not alloyed, can be cast in medals,
 very thin & even receives the impression of the cloth. Fine gold , not alloyed, can be cast in medals, but not
 things if it is not alloyed. A pansy anointed with wheat oil can be cast in alloyed gold. And other thin leaves,
 A pansy anointed with wheat oil can be cast in alloyed gold . And other thin leaves, but only if the branch
 not too big and the leaves, separately cast, can be soldered . Counterfeit diamonds put in a work Give a light
 too big and the leaves, separately cast, can be soldered. Counterfeit diamonds put in a work Give a light coat on the inside of the setting
 a light coat on the inside of the setting with black modeling wax , then anoint the inside, thus waxed, with wheat oil,
 setting with black modeling wax, then anoint the inside, thus waxed , with wheat oil, & then powder this with lamp
 black modeling wax, then anoint the inside, thus waxed, with wheat oil , & then powder this with lamp smoke, for it
 thus waxed, with wheat oil, & then powder this with lamp smoke , for it is necessary that ceste its color not
 is necessary that ceste its color not have luster for false stones . This done, set in your stone & then with
 have luster for false stones. This done, set in your stone & then with a bit of wax, then, with a
 set in your stone & then with a bit of wax , then, with a steel point & a small finishing
 & then with a bit of wax, then, with a steel point & a small finishing hammer, join the edge of
 finishing hammer, join the edge of the setting to the stone in order that daylight does not enter in. But keep
 daylight does not enter in. But keep from knocking the stone , which would break. Casting of lead and tin When
 keep from knocking the stone, which would break. Casting of lead and tin When it is often melted, it becomes brittle
 knocking the stone, which would break. Casting of lead and tin When it is often melted, it becomes brittle & fl
 in use for lizards & snakes is two ℥ of fine tin for one lb of new & unadulterated lead. The mold
 is two ℥ of fine tin for one lb of new & unadulterated lead . The mold is made of the aforesaid sand, common
 & unadulterated lead. The mold is made of the aforesaid sand , common to all metals; when it is reheated let
 mold is made of the aforesaid sand, common to all metals ; when it is reheated let it cool until you
 without harm in the hole of the gate. As for lead , one melts it in a crucible ju in the
 in the fire, with bellows, until the crucible & the lead are red. When it is in this state, purge it
 red. When it is in this state, purge it of charcoal , either with a scraper made for this purpose or
 its own, then throw in, if you want, a little rosin to burn the filth. However some find it better not
 in, if you want, a little rosin to burn the filth . However some find it better not to put any
 it better not to put any in, because it leaves filth . But, when they are ready to cast, they ought
 throw inside, as well, as much as a bean of looking-glass tin for each lb of lead, and that it e should
 as a bean of looking-glass tin for each lb of lead , and that it e should be red like melted
 of lead, and that it e should be red like melted metal when it enters in the mold. And if the mold
 press, in order that it joins well & that the lead does not spread outside the mold. However, should this happen
 mold has not filled, cast boldly, for, provided that your metal is red, it will set again, & join with the
 neat, like the principal. The same can be said for fine tin for thin things. And the alloy of fine tin is
 for fine tin for thin things. And the alloy of fine tin is one ℥ of new lead for one lb of
 And the alloy of fine tin is one ℥ of new lead for one lb of this. Large molds should be placed
 molds should be placed in very tight presses, between two sheets of copper pu, & then bury them in the sand, which is
 sheets of copper pu, & then bury them in the sand , which is better than ash, because il is by
 then bury them in the sand, which is better than ash , because il is by its weight it seals better.
 are subject to opening slightly by the weight of the metal . Some make square pots When the medal is thick,
 + Note that if you want to cast them in cuttlefish bone , they ought not to be very hot because they
 not to be very hot because they will burn the cuttlefish bone . Test for this effect with paper. If it turns
 will burn the cuttlefish bone. Test for this effect with paper . If it turns the paper red, it is enough,
 Test for this effect with paper. If it turns the paper red, it is enough, it is good to cast, but
 it is good to cast, but if it blackens the paper , it is too hot. If you want to cast
 it is too hot. If you want to cast a written paper , make your alloy with plom half lead & half
 cast a written paper, make your alloy with plom half lead & half tin, & as soon as it is melted,
 paper, make your alloy with plom half lead & half tin , & as soon as it is melted, cast between
 & as soon as it is melted, cast between two cartons in a very flat & level place, & with a
 very flat & level place, & with a point of gold or hard wood, engrave on the left the writing that
 & level place, & with a point of gold or hard wood , engrave on the left the writing that you want.
 the left the writing that you want. And having poured lead on a carton, press on top with the other adapted
 writing that you want. And having poured lead on a carton , press on top with the other adapted carton. either
 on a carton, press on top with the other adapted carton . either of earth or plates of copper, or iron,
 press on top with the other adapted carton. either of earth or plates of copper, or iron, or wood covered with
 top with the other adapted carton. either of earth or plates of copper , or iron, or wood covered with fer blanc, to
 adapted carton. either of earth or plates of copper, or iron , or wood covered with fer blanc, to bury more
 either of earth or plates of copper, or iron, or wood covered with fer blanc, to bury more easily these aforementioned
 or plates of copper, or iron, or wood covered with fer blanc , to bury more easily these aforementioned molds between the
 blanc, to bury more easily these aforementioned molds between the sheets of copper & the stirrup or screw of iron. Cast of wax
 the sheets of copper & the stirrup or screw of iron . Cast of wax to represent an animal that one
 copper & the stirrup or screw of iron. Cast of wax to represent an animal that one has not got Take
 represent an animal that one has not got Take some white wax , which is more appropriate for this work than anything
 because it is firmer & does not leave as much filth , as much as you need to mold the animal
 that you propose, & no more, and half as much charcoal, pestled & finely passed through a linen or a sleeve . The charcoal gives color and body to the wax,
 half as much charcoal, pestled & finely passed through a linen or a sleeve. The charcoal gives color and body to
 & finely passed through a linen or a sleeve. The charcoal gives color and body to the wax, which would otherwise
 a sleeve. The charcoal gives color and body to the wax , which would otherwise be transparent & the features would
 features would not be seen as well. Therefore, put your wax to melt in the charcoal fire. And when it will
 & liquid, take, for a bowl with handles full of melted wax , as much sulfur la as a large walnut. Pulverize
 a bowl with handles full of melted wax, as much sulfur la as a large walnut. Pulverize it, melt it over
 finish its bubbling, & when it is as liquid as water , throw it in the wax that you have removed
 it is as liquid as water, throw it in the wax that you have removed from the fire. And mix &
 well. Next, mix in, always stirring & in several goes, the aforesaid pulverized charcoal in several goes. And as it will be well incorporated,
 as it will be well incorporated, take heed if your wax has passed its high heat, which you will recognize when
 high heat, which you will recognize when it no longer smokes , when it makes large tracts se re pulling at
 were to cast too hot, you could not separate your wax from the mold, & it would set in the cast.
 stir it with a little stick, in order that the pulverized charcoal is everywhere & not placed at the bottom. And in
 little by little, & not in one go, because the wax , by its unctuousness, does not flow This black sulfured
 because the wax, by its unctuousness, does not flow This black sulfured wax is for modeling round figures that are not for releasing
 arms & legs out front or entwined. And then this wax , by means of sulfur, melts with very little heat
 front or entwined. And then this wax, by means of sulfur , melts with very little heat and exits without leaving
 melts with very little heat and exits without leaving any filth . If, by chance, the pestled charcoal remains there as
 and exits without leaving any filth. If, by chance, the pestled charcoal remains there as ash, by opening the mold & blowing
 filth. If, by chance, the pestled charcoal remains there as ash , by opening the mold & blowing inside, it stays
 & blowing inside, it stays neat. To make snakes with wax , or another thing to fix on a candle, one
 to fix on a candle, one needs to cast with modeling wax of all colors. like other things, & on this occasion,
 mold is full. As for the mold which is of white plaster , pulverized & reheated as for previous sands, you should
 is of white plaster, pulverized & reheated as for previous sands , you should make it well in advance, for it
 you use it, soak it for a good hour in cold water & for at least as long in water so hot,
 in cold water & for at least as long in water so hot , that, at the beginning, you cannot hold your finger
 it shows itself to be very wet everywhere, without the water being imbibed in it. And, removing it from the hot
 water being imbibed in it. And, removing it from the hot water , closed, cast your wax in such a state of
 And, removing it from the hot water, closed, cast your wax in such a state of heat as has been said.
 You will recognize that the cast is good when the wax spilled out onto the outside of the mold is thin
 many gates all along the mold, in order that the wax may thus run better. Make the first gate twice as
 well imbibed. The same must be done for fruits of sugar . This wax is very soft & amiable & pliant
 The same must be done for fruits of sugar. This wax is very soft & amiable & pliant as copper, and
 This wax is very soft & amiable & pliant as copper , and it is so strong because of the sulfur,
 as copper, and it is so strong because of the sulfur , which renders it meltable much before the other, thus
 other, thus that you can prove it on a hot slate . And the sulfur that you will have put in
 you can prove it on a hot slate. And the sulfur that you will have put in it will be found,
 it, cracked at the bottom. Having thus passed through the wax , it does not inflame from a candle. And on
 will cast very neatly for medals. One uses the same wax in place of varnish to etch When your animal is
 for medals. One uses the same wax in place of varnish to etch When your animal is cast, cut with a
 some stick or taper, put it to soften on in hot water , and hold it while twisting it around. Cut down
 gates, in order that they are smooth & that the wax has more of the silver to run in one go
 are smooth & that the wax has more of the silver to run in one go without turning around in the
 turning around in the folds of the snake. etch on silver & copper with aquafortis. With this also, one takes the
 in the folds of the snake. etch on silver & copper with aquafortis. With this also, one takes the hollow form
 folds of the snake. etch on silver & copper with aquafortis . With this also, one takes the hollow form of
 relief & then one casts in this hollow form some tempered sand , which once more represents the relief very neatly. And
 you can cast on this one its hollow form in copper , gold, and silver, and make seals of great singularity.
 can cast on this one its hollow form in copper, gold , and silver, and make seals of great singularity. Seals
 on this one its hollow form in copper, gold, and silver , and make seals of great singularity. Seals For casting
 and make seals of great singularity. Seals For casting in sulfur To cast neatly in sulfur, arrange the bread pith under
 singularity. Seals For casting in sulfur To cast neatly in sulfur , arrange the bread pith under the brazier, as you
 casting in sulfur To cast neatly in sulfur, arrange the bread pith under the brazier, as you know. Mold in it what
 let dry, & you will have very neat work. Try sulfur passed through melted wax, because it no longer inflames &
 you will have very neat work. Try sulfur passed through melted wax , because it no longer inflames & no longer makes
 eyelets. Molding and shrinking a large figure Mold it with bread pith coming from the oven, or as the aforesaid, & in
 can, by this means, by elongating and widening the imprinted bread pith , vary the figure & with one image make many
 the figure & with one image make many various ones. Bread coming from the oven is better. And the one that
 one that is reheated twice retracts more. You can cast sulfur without leaving the imprint of the bread to dry, if
 You can cast sulfur without leaving the imprint of the bread to dry, if you want to mold as big as
 shrink, make it dry, either more or less. Casting of lead and tin in plaster If you want to cast some
 it dry, either more or less. Casting of lead and tin in plaster If you want to cast some flat medal
 either more or less. Casting of lead and tin in plaster If you want to cast some flat medal or some
 need to burn in the mold, you can cast in plaster & brick, mixed like above, and not in plaster alone,
 burn in the mold, you can cast in plaster & brick , mixed like above, and not in plaster alone, for
 in plaster & brick, mixed like above, and not in plaster alone, for it contracts too much, feeling a harsh fire
 a harsh fire if it is not accompanied. But, with brick , it holds well. However, take heed to dry out
 be their molds reheated & set ablaze, mix in some feather alum & even some crocum. I have molded in plaster &
 set ablaze, mix in some feather alum & even some crocum . I have molded in plaster & brick very neatly,
 feather alum & even some crocum. I have molded in plaster & brick very neatly, & it withstood several castings. I
 & even some crocum. I have molded in plaster & brick very neatly, & it withstood several castings. I tried plaster
 brick very neatly, & it withstood several castings. I tried plaster & brick alone and molded en noyau like others. My
 neatly, & it withstood several castings. I tried plaster & brick alone and molded en noyau like others. My mold was
 noyau like others. My mold was very neat, having lightly oiled & rubbed with eau-de-vie my medal. I made my gate
 mold was very neat, having lightly oiled & rubbed with eau-de-vie my medal. I made my gate ample at the entrance,
 burning myself. I made an alloy of 4 ℥ of tin & six deniers of lead. I cast red, and it
 alloy of 4 ℥ of tin & six deniers of lead . I cast red, and it came out well. Next,
 out well. Next, I put in for 4 ℥ of tin , xii deniers of lead; it came out very well.
 put in for 4 ℥ of tin, xii deniers of lead ; it came out very well. When there is nothing
 the mold, it is not necessary to reheat it for lead & tin. But for flowers & what should burn, yes.
 it is not necessary to reheat it for lead & tin . But for flowers & what should burn, yes. Molding
 it, you can reattach it or else fill it with goldsmith’s cement , because it can be painted. The crayfish is one
 vexing to mold, because it gets mixed up with the sand & is not released, you can burn it with a
 is not released, you can burn it with a hot iron on the crayfish, so that no one sees it. As
 or feathers, it is necessary that you anoint them with olive wheat oil , which is quickly dry & which will keep the
 the tail, very thin. Do not forget to rub with eau-de-vie before molding. Stag beetles, crayfish & crabs are molded in
 you open your mold, you will find the crayfish with white bones , but not in powder. And without opening it, the
 bones, but not in powder. And without opening it, the ☿ will have done nothing. Layer these oil colors very transparently.
 opening it, the ☿ will have done nothing. Layer these oil colors very transparently. To paint it, boil it with wine
 oil colors very transparently. To paint it, boil it with wine & a little salt, in order that they become very
 To paint it, boil it with wine & a little salt , in order that they become very red, & take
 & take this as a model. Paint the back with vermilion mixed with lake, & the sides & underneath the belly
 as a model. Paint the back with vermilion mixed with lake , & the sides & underneath the belly & the
 the sides & underneath the belly & the legs with vermilion , & yellow ocher, and white. Having therefore let your
 & underneath the belly & the legs with vermilion, & yellow ocher , and white. Having therefore let your crayfish dry a
 belly & the legs with vermilion, & yellow ocher, and white . Having therefore let your crayfish dry a little in
 will only be more beautiful. Therefore, make your slab of yellow potter’s earth , like for other figures, lay your crayfish on top,
 and on the top. Push the back down in the clay slab, up to near the legs, which is about halfway.
 which is about halfway. And fix the body with an iron wire point in the middle &, if it seems necessary, another
 extend them &, from underneath, add to them a little clay to raise them. Hide also the horns in the clay,
 clay to raise them. Hide also the horns in the clay , under the big legs, to arrange them afterward as
 like. As for the small legs, extend them on the clay until the joint, and the other half of the legs
 move & detach, secure them well, not only on the clay , but att fix them with wax & a little
 not only on the clay, but att fix them with wax & a little hot iron right in the joints. And
 but att fix them with wax & a little hot iron right in the joints. And if you want to find
 the end of one of the legs with the same wax on the body, or on one of the big legs,
 the eggs, & fix it in this form with an iron wire point. Above all special heed, since the thing is s
 can be well cleaned. Lastly, having rubbed the crayfish with eau-de-vie , cast your sand. Having set, uncover the back of
 cleaned. Lastly, having rubbed the crayfish with eau-de-vie, cast your sand . Having set, uncover the back of the crayfish, the
 itself, like the hairy brows near the mouth, with some melted wax underneath. Uncover the most that you can, but take heed
 it, one does the middle of the back mixed with vermilion mixed with a little lake, and the sides & the
 of the back mixed with vermilion mixed with a little lake , and the sides & the belly & underneath the
 underneath the legs is with a flesh color made of vermilion , white of ceruse, a little yellow ocher. As in
 the legs is with a flesh color made of vermilion, white of ceruse , a little yellow ocher. As in this & all
 flesh color made of vermilion, white of ceruse, a little yellow ocher . As in this & all other things, have always
 the horns on the big legs, & or make with whitened latten wire & solder them. Take heed d, when modeling, to arrange
 big legs, & or make with whitened latten wire & solder them. Take heed d, when modeling, to arrange the legs
 a burin or other appropriate thing, clean very carefully the sand which will be in the joints & elsewhere with your
 little brushes. And if something gets detached, attach it with wax , as said. And attach also the horns in the
 gate, along the end of the little legs, with some wax . And fill the holes made by the iron wire
 with some wax. And fill the holes made by the iron wire point with it. And once everything is quite neat &
 everything is quite neat & more than half is uncovered, oil your ut mold & n’oubli, after having dipped the reverse
 ut mold & n’oubli, after having dipped the reverse in water , & do not forget to oil all the delicate
 dipped the reverse in water, & do not forget to oil all the delicate parts which are between the legs and
 legs and the little pincers. Then, rub the crayfish with eau-de-vie . And make your second cast, having flattened the first
 your mold after the second cast unless it has been luted & reheated & unless what is inside is burned. Do
 what is inside is burned. Do not forget to put crocum among your sand when you mold crayfish, for one needs
 is burned. Do not forget to put crocum among your sand when you mold crayfish, for one needs to reheat strongly,
 mold crayfish, for one needs to reheat strongly, & the crocum withstands marvelously. Molding a crab & a crayfish, it is
 Make all around them, as you see, a gate of wax , & at the end of the tail, also two
 which you make the principal gate. Make a gate of wax , elongated in a line like a thick thread, all
 a gate of wax, elongated in a line like a thick thread , all along the end of the legs & at
 or folded on its own, give it a gate of wax , which from its extremity joins either at the body
 or at some other place which receives a lot of metal . Having uncovered it, attach & secure with wax the
 lot of metal. Having uncovered it, attach & secure with wax the two little hairy horns of the crayfish & other
 Molding grasshoppers and things too thin If you have a written paper to mold that is too thin, after you have made
 set, give a little thickness to the reverse of your paper with melted butter, which is the most appropriate means there
 a little thickness to the reverse of your paper with melted butter , which is the most appropriate means there is, &
 need to give thickness. But take heed to apply this melted butter underneath the wing or in whichever place it cannot be
 seen. For giving thickness to a pansy or other flowers, butter is not good, but rather wheat oil, which is soon
 pansy or other flowers, butter is not good, but rather wheat oil , which is soon dry & holds firm. Wax would
 rather wheat oil, which is soon dry & holds firm. Wax would not be appropriate here for it is too hot
 makes the thing to which it is applied contract. But butter is amiable and handleable. If you write on paper or
 But butter is amiable and handleable. If you write on paper or on common carton & if your letter is of
 amiable and handleable. If you write on paper or on common carton & if your letter is of gum, the humidity of
 write on paper or on common carton & if your letter is of gum, the humidity of the clay slab or
 or on common carton & if your letter is of gum , the humidity of the clay slab or the wetted
 if your letter is of gum, the humidity of the clay slab or the wetted sand for noyau will moisten your
 of gum, the humidity of the clay slab or the wetted sand for noyau will moisten your letter & undo it. Therefore write with
 slab or the wetted sand for noyau will moisten your letter & undo it. Therefore write with cinnabar wetted with oil
 will moisten your letter & undo it. Therefore write with cinnabar wetted with oil on oiled paper & press in. +
 letter & undo it. Therefore write with cinnabar wetted with oil on oiled paper & press in. + Reheat your molds
 undo it. Therefore write with cinnabar wetted with oil on oiled paper & press in. + Reheat your molds with charcoals previously
 oiled paper & press in. + Reheat your molds with charcoals previously lit in the forge, in order that the fire
 However, it is always good to redden the mold once. Lute for luting your molds I have not found one that
 is always good to redden the mold once. Lute for luting your molds I have not found one that is made
 made more quickly than this one, nor better. Take this lean earth of which the founders of artillery & bells make their trusseaulx and molds , which is lean & sandy. Temper it e moderately
 & sandy. Temper it e moderately like a very thick mortar . Mix in it about half horse dung, & then
 like a very thick mortar. Mix in it about half horse dung , & then have it beaten well. Next, mix in
 it beaten well. Next, mix in a third part of discarded cloth waste or shearings of cloth, and beat it again quite strongly.
 mix in a third part of discarded cloth waste or shearings of cloth , and beat it again quite strongly. You can reheat
 strongly. You can reheat your mold as soon as the lute is placed. Molding turtles The water turtle is more beautiful
 through all the intestines, & then make it swallow some vinegar mixed with eau-de-vie or urine, as for snakes. One needs
 intestines, & then make it swallow some vinegar mixed with eau-de-vie or urine, as for snakes. One needs to mold them
 then make it swallow some vinegar mixed with eau-de-vie or urine , as for snakes. One needs to mold them in
 for they come apart, & even the shell, from the hot water . They come out better hollow, because their great thickness
 of the garrigue do not. They die rather quickly in vinegar mixed with a little eau-de-vie or urine, as with all
 They die rather quickly in vinegar mixed with a little eau-de-vie or urine, as with all other animals. They keep themselves,
 rather quickly in vinegar mixed with a little eau-de-vie or urine , as with all other animals. They keep themselves, in
 by the cold. They hide in the earth or under wheat chaff or warm manure, & live only on the moisture of
 They hide in the earth or under wheat chaff or warm manure , & live only on the moisture of the earth.
 wish. Molders from Foix Those who mold crosswise make their sand with crocum & calcined slate, but slate always retains its
 from Foix Those who mold crosswise make their sand with crocum & calcined slate, but slate always retains its asperity &
 Those who mold crosswise make their sand with crocum & calcined slate , but slate always retains its asperity & becomes porous,
 crosswise make their sand with crocum & calcined slate, but slate always retains its asperity & becomes porous, because it is
 it is fatty. En noyau, it is not good; in sand , it can be accommodated. They sieve their sand, grind
 good; in sand, it can be accommodated. They sieve their sand , grind it on porphyry, and wet it in water,
 can be accommodated. They sieve their sand, grind it on porphyry , and wet it in water, & they take away
 their sand, grind it on porphyry, and wet it in water , & they take away the finest, which is on
 biggest & the lumpiest. Because they contain a lot of metal , it is best to mold them hollow, for they
 which you will start in the round parts, empty of wax , that you have put at the end of the
 put at the end of the feet to attract the metal . Thus, the gate being made by wax, you are
 to attract the metal. Thus, the gate being made by wax , you are in no danger of encrusting something from
 it is more expedient to make thus the gate of wax , to cast the second mold on top, than to
 & evenly redden the molds where there are gates of wax , in order that it melts well & leaves nothing
 one side, that which is hollow being raised up with clay , & then one uncovers them from the other side
 released easily. If they are not, one models them in wax , or else one fills the cavities that cannot release
 or else one fills the cavities that cannot release with wax or clay. Iron filings Because usually filings are mixed with
 one fills the cavities that cannot release with wax or clay . Iron filings Because usually filings are mixed with filth,
 fills the cavities that cannot release with wax or clay. Iron filings Because usually filings are mixed with filth, it is good
 cannot release with wax or clay. Iron filings Because usually filings are mixed with filth, it is good to redden them
 or clay. Iron filings Because usually filings are mixed with filth , it is good to redden them in the fire
 good to redden them in the fire to burn the impurities and then wash them in clear water. In this way,
 fire to burn the impurities and then wash them in clear water . In this way, the dirt will go to the
 way, the dirt will go to the top of the water , which you throw out, & the good filings will
 top of the water, which you throw out, & the good filings will go to the bottom. Carnations Because the ones that
 are weighty, & for this reason, one makes them with leaves & sheets of silver . Turtles Those of water are more beautiful & easier
 to the work after you have killed it entirely in vinegar & urine, as said, let it dry well. And clean
 work after you have killed it entirely in vinegar & urine , as said, let it dry well. And clean it
 well with your small bristle brushes. Next, not take your clay slab and put it on top and smudge it a
 it hold high by the means of one a little fresh clay that you will adapt from underneath. Stretch the said head
 your little pincers. The head arranged, dexterously place d a grain of yellow millet in each eye with pincers, because as soon as they
 this as well with all other small animals, with some grain of large amaranth , some of small, and grain of rapeseed, & this
 all other small animals, with some grain of large amaranth, some of small , and grain of rapeseed, & this done, you will
 with some grain of large amaranth, some of small, and grain of rapeseed , & this done, you will arrange the legs, securing
 this done, you will arrange the legs, securing them with iron points and then, with some clay, fill up all the
 legs, securing them with iron points and then, with some clay , fill up all the empty space around the turtle,
 what is between the two shells, in order that the sand entering there does not prevent it from releasing. And because
 s e of belly, make a little pit in the clay slab to adapt them there. Your turtle When they are
 & well cleaned with brushes, place the the circle of clay around the slab. Then, with a band of clay placed
 of clay around the slab. Then, with a band of clay placed on the middle of e the the back of
 see, & at the widest place, divide your mold. Subsequently, oil with your paintbrush dedicated for this the half of the
 half of the shell you want to mold. Temper in hot water , so that without burning yourself, you can hold your
 can hold your finger in it without burning yourself, your sand , a little p thick. And f before casting it,
 thick. And f before casting it, rub the shell with eau-de-vie . And next, cast your sand & let it set,
 it, rub the shell with eau-de-vie. And next, cast your sand & let it set, and note that all things that
 are not malleable, like snakes & lizards, want to be oiled to release. Things that are malleable do not need this.
 to release. Things that are malleable do not need this. Hot water makes the tempered sand in water set better on oil,
 are malleable do not need this. Hot water makes the tempered sand in water set better on oil, which otherwise would be
 not need this. Hot water makes the tempered sand in water set better on oil, which otherwise would be refused. Once
 water makes the tempered sand in water set better on oil , which otherwise would be refused. Once your half of
 desp molded, separate it, with its half mold, from the clay slab that you will set aside to return it to
 others. But because it happens that because u of the clay entredeux, the half mold will consist of more than half
 & secure its two legs, which are not molded, with iron wire points. And stuff all around what is empty, up until
 empty, up until the edge of the top shell, with clay . Next, place the circle around and put a clay
 with clay. Next, place the circle around and put a clay entredeulx on the first mold, a little above the notches.
 the first mold, a little above the notches. And having oiled the d first half mold, & its notches, and the
 shell of the turtle, & having also showered it with eau-de-vie , heat your water, temper you sand with a little
 turtle, & having also showered it with eau-de-vie, heat your water , temper you sand with a little sal ammoniac water
 also showered it with eau-de-vie, heat your water, temper you sand with a little sal ammoniac water & the said hot
 eau-de-vie, heat your water, temper you sand with a little sal ammoniac water & the said hot water, & cast. Having set, adapt
 sand with a little sal ammoniac water & the said hot water , & cast. Having set, adapt the sides of these
 afterward, to make the hollow, the reheated mold cannot be oiled because it drinks the oil. + If there is some
 the reheated mold cannot be oiled because it drinks the oil . + If there is some crocum in the sand,
 because it drinks the oil. + If there is some crocum in the sand, the joints of the molds can hardly
 the oil. + If there is some crocum in the sand , the joints of the molds can hardly be perceived.
 leaf. Casting in three frames One casts in three frames bronze mortars & similar things, which are easily released, namely the
 that is in it would not be released. Inquire A Cuttlefish bone One ought not to cast either tin or lead too
 Inquire A Cuttlefish bone One ought not to cast either tin or lead too hot in it, for it would burn
 Cuttlefish bone One ought not to cast either tin or lead too hot in it, for it would burn the bone
 lead too hot in it, for it would burn the bone & come out lumpy. And to know when it is
 at a good heat, dip a little piece of twisted paper into it. If it blackens it without lighting, it is
 burns it & catches fire there, it is too hot. Gold & silver are able to be cast well there, but
 & catches fire there, it is too hot. Gold & silver are able to be cast well there, but it never
 To mold something delicate well, it is necessary that the bone be not so dry If, for it is brittle &
 However, before casting in them, dry them, & especially for gold , which does not want humidity. You will recognize that
 crackle once brought near the ear. Then, join them & lute the joints with a little clay, & make it dry
 Then, join them & lute the joints with a little clay , & make it dry lightly by the fire, &
 & let it cool before opening. Usually one cuts the bone in the middle, and the dullest part and that which
 One smooths & flattens these two halves on some smooth wood , then one scrapes charcoal on top to make it
 these two halves on some smooth wood, then one scrapes charcoal on top to make it release well. And to make
 top to make it release well. And to make the charcoal run evenly everywhere, one knocks on the side of the
 the side of the hand that holds half of the bone . Once both charcoaled, one takes the main bone that
 the hand that holds half of the bone. Once both charcoaled , one takes the main bone that is prepared &
 of the bone. Once both charcoaled, one takes the main bone that is prepared & rounded on the sides, and having
 your foot with your shoe taken off, & make the bone be on top; thus you l’emprand will imprint it without
 & smooth on the sides your d halves of molded bone . & And to cut it well, always begin coming
 your medal does not come out by itself, scratch the bone from the back, which is rugged, and it will release.
 When you want to cast, secure & join your two bones with some small points of wood, &c. But to mold
 & join your two bones with some small points of wood , &c. But to mold very neatly, there is only
 &c. But to mold very neatly, there is only our sand . +Flowers When you mold them, if they are not
 mold to keep them from rising up, & cast the sand little by little, & always blow strongly in order that
 become lumpy. Because you did not put in this a clay slab, the mold sometimes holds to the table where you
 the table. Molding plants and flowers One does not need clay slabs, because plants or flowers are not laid on top
 the size that you want, otherwise it would burst, the sand being inside. Secure it & fortify it well by the
 adapted to the end of cir of the gate of wax , which should not be rough but rather smooth, in
 release well. Then, wet your flower or plant in some good eau-de-vie , or else moin placed in a long glass It
 in a long glass It is enough to reheat your luted mold once for flowers & to heat it the second
 to heat it the second time if you cast with tin & lead, for with gold & silver, one needs to
 it the second time if you cast with tin & lead , for with gold & silver, one needs to reheat
 time if you cast with tin & lead, for with gold & silver, one needs to reheat it twice. Cast your
 you cast with tin & lead, for with gold & silver , one needs to reheat it twice. Cast your tin
 & silver, one needs to reheat it twice. Cast your tin very red in the mold, of such heat that you
 of the mold which closes the circle your bit of iron wire , which holds the wax gate, and cleave with it
 the circle your bit of iron wire, which holds the wax gate, and cleave with it the clay closure, as you
 which holds the wax gate, and cleave with it the clay closure, as you see, & it place it low, so
 & can leave enough thickness for the mold, for the tempered sand always raises the plant or flower. Thus, if it is
 the flower with some b small stick until the cast sand begins to d thicken. Your flower being well arranged, d
 a bowl big enough to temper in it as much sand as it takes to fill your mold. Put in a
 it takes to fill your mold. Put in a little sal ammoniac water , then some fountain water. And when the au en
 mold. Put in a little sal ammoniac water, then some fountain water . And when the au en bowl is nearly full,
 en bowl is nearly full, put in, by sprinkling, your sand , & mix & dilute it well in order that
 its widest part, and if you find the remains of thick sand , which has not thinned well, cast it rather toward
 the gate than elsewhere. Finally, you can even cast some thicker tempered sand in order to make make a quicker set. I have
 I have molded thus a marigold with its leaves. The crocum ferri is safer for flowers, and when there is crocum, lute
 crocum ferri is safer for flowers, and when there is crocum , lute with the same sand that has served, and
 ferri is safer for flowers, and when there is crocum, lute with the same sand that has served, and is the
 flowers, and when there is crocum, lute with the same sand that has served, and is the most excellent of all.
 its buds, and its leaves, was of one lb of fine tin mixed with two ounces of lead. If there is some
 one lb of fine tin mixed with two ounces of lead . If there is some flashing, repair with a penknife.
 of a knife, & better yet, wet it well in water . Next, use small hog bristle brushes, a bit of
 better yet, wet it well in water. Next, use small hog bristle brushes, a bit of iron wire, &c. When the mold
 water. Next, use small hog bristle brushes, a bit of iron wire , &c. When the mold is reheated the first time,
 to half cool, then gently pass through the gate an iron wire to make an opening for the burned ashes inside. Next,
 an iron wire to make an opening for the burned ashes inside. Next, blow inside with bellows, then turn the mold
 tail of the flower too much to the gate of wax , for fear of spoiling something when you pull out
 of spoiling something when you pull out the gate of wax . To pull it out, one needs to dig out
 pull it with your little pincers by the tail of iron . Molding turtles This is the continuation of the second
 be seen nor released, put in some small pieces of wax , & with points of hot, thick iron wire, stretch
 some small pieces of wax, & with points of hot, thick iron wire , stretch & adapt the said wax. Then, bouch stuff
 of hot, thick iron wire, stretch & adapt the said wax . Then, bouch stuff with soft clay the entrance of
 stretch & adapt the said wax. Then, bouch stuff with soft clay the entrance of all its cavities. Put the clay circle
 soft clay the entrance of all its cavities. Put the clay circle around your mold, made already of two pieces, which
 is to say, you will put an entre deulx of clay on top of the throat & another on the edge
 edge of the shell of the tail, #. And having oiled and the shell of the belly & having rubbed it
 the shell of the belly & having rubbed it with eau-de-vie , cast your sand a little thick, & temper with
 the belly & having rubbed it with eau-de-vie, cast your sand a little thick, & temper with hot water as before.
 eau-de-vie, cast your sand a little thick, & temper with hot water as before. Having set, remove these entredeulx of clay, then
 hot water as before. Having set, remove these entredeulx of clay , then uncover well the front & back legs, that
 underneath & the tail & the throat, & remove the clay from the cavities qu, all in one piece if you
 if this cavity will release well. And if the pulled-out clay brings with it the wax that you put there, put
 well. And if the pulled-out clay brings with it the wax that you put there, put back it in the places
 go, attach & rejoin it to the mold with some wax & the point of hot iron. Do not forget to
 the mold with some wax & the point of hot iron . Do not forget to put some po melted wax
 of hot iron. Do not forget to put some po melted wax at the end of the nails of the turtles to
 mold it alone. Take heed to make a border of melted wax , with a hot iron, all around the edge of
 to make a border of melted wax, with a hot iron , all around the edge of the top shell which
 vent better. And make two little strings of the same wax , r connecting from the end the belly shell to
 the end the belly shell to the said edge of wax that is around the shell of the spine, and make
 strings. This is to make the vent better. This done, oil your mold and what appears of the shell. Put the
 of the shell. Put the circle around & cast with hot water , as before, observing there what you have observed. Do
 tail. And having set, you uncover your mold remove the clay contour, clean your mold, & smooth it & flatten it
 a knife, like for other molds. Dip it lightly in water , then try to release it. Usually one begins ment
 if you had not provided for it, by filling with wax before molding what does not release well, it will be
 broken pieces. For you can reassemble them with points of rather strong iron & fill the crack or fault that could be there
 fill the crack or fault that could be there with melted wax & the hot iron, as with others, in order that
 that could be there with melted wax & the hot iron , as with others, in order that the core for
 uncover well up until what can hold. + Casting of copper alloyed with ☾, which is like very base solder /
 until what can hold. + Casting of copper alloyed with ☾ , which is like very base solder / ard and
 + Casting of copper alloyed with ☾, which is like very base solder / ard and old K and some R out of
 ☾, which is like very base solder / ard and old K and some R out of xii I have cast with
 I have seen, in very small figures & thin as paper . I have cast very hot in the very red
 melted substance of this the two substances compositions, which make silver run, & have made as if I had wanted to
 & have made as if I had wanted to cast pure silver . This alloy is white in bullitoire, like any alloys
 white in bullitoire, like any alloys which resemble, however little, ☾ . For casting something delicate, use this one. Lute There
 however little, ☾. For casting something delicate, use this one. Lute There is no better than the one that has which
 of the crucible, otherwise it would cool it. Casting of latten I took the one of latten skillets, which are beaten
 cool it. Casting of latten I took the one of latten skillets, which are beaten & forged thinly. I Once well
 cast in it two or three grains, like peas, of sal ammoniac . This clarified it like a mirror. Once very white
 the force of being hot, I cast in it some pulverized calamine, raw & pure . I cast it in its very red mold. It
 red mold. It came out very neat & thin like paper , & hollow on the reverse. But because it had
 cool, then put it to the whitening, of one part raw tartar & of one half common salt. Once well boiled, I
 whitening, of one part raw tartar & of one half common salt . Once well boiled, I rubbed it with a scratch-brush
 Once well boiled, I rubbed it with a scratch-brush in clear water . And because the first time it had not Do
 it cool when melting. It always makes a tail, like melted glass , because of the calamine. Usually, the soft latten of
 always makes a tail, like melted glass, because of the calamine . Usually, the soft latten of skillets becomes red from
 tail, like melted glass, because of the calamine. Usually, the soft latten of skillets becomes red from casting, especially when it stays a long
 stays a long time in the fire, m because the calamine exhales itself. But sour latten of candlesticks becomes yellow &
 in the fire, m because the calamine exhales itself. But sour latten of candlesticks becomes yellow & pin filings. come out as clear as
 exhales itself. But sour latten of candlesticks becomes yellow & pin filings . come out as clear as I wanted, I reheated
 It came out very neatly. You will do thus for copper and silver. And if you want to give Beautiful color
 out very neatly. You will do thus for copper and silver . And if you want to give Beautiful color for
 silver. And if you want to give Beautiful color for latten Having cleaned it well, as is said, & scratch-brushed it
 is said, & scratch-brushed it well, make it boil in water & turmeric root or terra merita, and it will become
 & scratch-brushed it well, make it boil in water & turmeric root or terra merita , and it will become very beautiful. Whitening If it
 root or terra merita, and it will become very beautiful. Whitening If it is for silver, do not pestle your tartar
 it will become very beautiful. Whitening If it is for silver , do not pestle your tartar with iron but with
 Whitening If it is for silver, do not pestle your tartar with iron but with the handle of a hammer, for
 it is for silver, do not pestle your tartar with iron but with the handle of a hammer, for if you
 handle of a hammer, for if you touch & dip iron in your whitening, the silver would become red like copper
 hammer, for if you touch & dip iron in your whitening , the silver would become red like copper & you
 if you touch & dip iron in your whitening, the silver would become red like copper & you would need to
 iron in your whitening, the silver would become red like copper & you would need to reheat it & put it
 would need to reheat it & put it again in whitening . Mix nothing with your tartar that should not enter
 & put it again in whitening. Mix nothing with your tartar that should not enter the whitening, for this corrupts it.
 Mix nothing with your tartar that should not enter the whitening , for this corrupts it. Do not let it spill
 first boil, for in this is all its strength. The whitening is made with one part pulverized tartar & a half
 all its strength. The whitening is made with one part pulverized tartar & a half of common salt. Molding the foot of
 made with one part pulverized tartar & a half of common salt . Molding the foot of the bittern, or of the
 two, and the bottom in one piece. in three pieces Crocum ferri To make this quickly, redden the filings in an iron
 three pieces Crocum ferri To make this quickly, redden the filings in an iron case, stirring it often. Then sprinkle it
 ferri To make this quickly, redden the filings in an iron case, stirring it often. Then sprinkle it with good vinegar
 an iron case, stirring it often. Then sprinkle it with good vinegar & let it evaporate, & without removing it from atop
 let it redden & inflame. Once cooled, pulverize it on marble & return it to the fire, rou sprinkle with vinegar,
 marble & return it to the fire, rou sprinkle with vinegar , and then inflame. Thus it will quickly be colored
 Take heed in hollow & fanciful molds to have some strong plaster , which endures the fire without bursting, if it is
 if you cannot have any such, mix a little more feather alum & add to it also some crocum, which fortifies it
 little more feather alum & add to it also some crocum , which fortifies it & makes it so that the
 file. Make this hole before molding joining your molds. Softening iron and rendering it very soft Take sublimate, quicklime, soap from
 your molds. Softening iron and rendering it very soft Take sublimate , quicklime, soap from Venice, horse dung, a little less
 molds. Softening iron and rendering it very soft Take sublimate, quicklime , soap from Venice, horse dung, a little less sublimate
 Softening iron and rendering it very soft Take sublimate, quicklime, soap from Venice , horse dung, a little less sublimate than the others.
 rendering it very soft Take sublimate, quicklime, soap from Venice, horse dung , a little less sublimate than the others. Wet all
 sublimate, quicklime, soap from Venice, horse dung, a little less sublimate than the others. Wet all of this together like paste,
 Wet all of this together like paste, & impaste the iron with it, & envelop it in this with some bad
 iron with it, & envelop it in this with some bad linen . Then make it reheat until it is very red.
 very soft for engraving on it well whatever you want. Base gold from Germany , electrum One calls it gold from the Rhine, which
 on it well whatever you want. Base gold from Germany, electrum One calls it gold from the Rhine, which one finds
 you want. Base gold from Germany, electrum One calls it gold from the Rhine , which one finds in the rivers, and is spangle
 the Rhine, which one finds in the rivers, and is spangle gold . Goldsmiths from Germany wanted to refine it, thinking to
 separate it from this whiteness, which they deemed to be silver . But it always remains whiteish, which demonstrates that this
 is fixed, & it does not lack color. This is electrum , from which one can make cups which will demonstrate
 helped by water mills, & most of the artisans of metals , of gold, & of silver, & others, make have
 water mills, & most of the artisans of metals, of gold , & of silver, & others, make have their large
 most of the artisans of metals, of gold, & of silver , & others, make have their large works beaten with
 large works beaten with these trip hammers. And to draw iron wire , they redden large masses of iron, & having made
 And to draw iron wire, they redden large masses of iron , & having made it into a point, they hook
 hook it thus all red & thus promptly draw the wire . Repairing a medal If you want to mold any
 same time repair it, cast it in a majority of tin & copiously put in looking-glass tin to harden it. Molding
 it in a majority of tin & copiously put in looking-glass tin to harden it. Molding vases in several pieces Goldsmiths who
 Goldsmiths who work in large wares and plate get whatever wooden forms they please turned on a lathe. And then, with
 they please turned on a lathe. And then, with some wax , they model on top masks, festoons, and whatever they
 next they mold in three, in four, or several pieces. Gold solder They take, for one gold denier, one grain of
 they mold in three, in four, or several pieces. Gold solder They take, for one gold denier, one grain of the
 four, or several pieces. Gold solder They take, for one gold denier, one grain of the fine alloy, like old douzains
 They take, for one gold denier, one grain of the fine alloy , like old douzains are. Molding a fly Large flies
 one needs par d to anoint underneath their wings with wheat oil , which dries quickly and fortifies them & gives them
 or bouquet. The others are made by hand with a very thin silver sheet . One ought not to keep them once dead, because
 once dead, because they dry out and their legs break. Wheat oil is put underneath delicate things to render them more rigid
 hold their natural position. Because being weak & delicate, the tempered sand , weighing down their tops, would change their form. Bat
 large mold & it would not be certain that the metal would run sufficiently. Thus, when you want to mold them,
 out better, but support the side of the wings with wax , as you know, to feed the cast well. Very
 with wax, as you know, to feed the cast well. Very strong wax Mix with this rosin and bole, and do not cast
 feed the cast well. Very strong wax Mix with this rosin and bole, and do not cast it very hot. Various
 cast well. Very strong wax Mix with this rosin and bole , and do not cast it very hot. Various alloys
 and do not cast it very hot. Various alloys of tin and lead For hollow things like turtles, half fine lead
 not cast it very hot. Various alloys of tin and lead For hollow things like turtles, half fine lead and half
 of tin and lead For hollow things like turtles, half fine lead and half tin. For flowers, almost all tin, namely a
 For hollow things like turtles, half fine lead and half tin . For flowers, almost all tin, namely a lb of
 half fine lead and half tin. For flowers, almost all tin , namely a lb of fine tin and two ℥
 tin. For flowers, almost all tin, namely a lb of fine tin and two ℥ of fine lead. For lizards that are
 namely a lb of fine tin and two ℥ of fine lead . For lizards that are as thick as one or
 are as thick as one or two fingers, almost all lead , namely a lb of fine lead and 4 ℥
 or two fingers, almost all lead, namely a lb of fine lead and 4 ℥ es of fine tin. Molds They are
 a lb of fine lead and 4 ℥ es of fine tin . Molds They are less subject to cracking while reheating
 time on the fire makes them corrupt, especially when the plaster is not strong. It is better to reheat a mold
 & more violent fire for several than for one. And, glowing charcoal stopping up the space between the molds, the heat reverberates
 making fire there, except to cover it. And because your lead and tin become sour when frequently melted red, to soften,
 there, except to cover it. And because your lead and tin become sour when frequently melted red, to soften, melt it
 soften, melt it without reddening, and cast in a rod. Brick cools the metal, & if this were not for giving
 without reddening, and cast in a rod. Brick cools the metal , & if this were not for giving bond, it
 casts. But those in which one wants to cast only lead or tin and or flat medals, having been only dried,
 those in which one wants to cast only lead or tin and or flat medals, having been only dried, withstand many.
 and or flat medals, having been only dried, withstand many. Very finely ground iron scales render them very firm & strong.. Molding hollow This iron
 scales render them very firm & strong.. Molding hollow This iron wire point, which is put thus bi through the hole, is
 here on the side, & then adapt a circle of soft clay aultr, two fingers high, around the hole, like for other
 the hole, like for other molds. And then temper your molding sand moderately thick, & cast it through the hole until it
 is well well filled, up to the surface of the clay circle. But take heed to not cast r in through
 some small point, to unblock it, & make the hollow wax fill up. Cast in, at the end, the sand, tempered
 hollow wax fill up. Cast in, at the end, the sand , tempered a little thick to give strength to the
 a little thick to give strength to the mold, for water coming to the surface s of the mold always makes
 mold always makes it softer. Having set, scrape off the clay circle & the excess which is on the hole through
 nothing will be discernable. When your mold is thus prepared, lute it all around with the same sand which served for
 is thus prepared, lute it all around with the same sand which served for the molds . Next, reheat it in a slow fire at the
 of the gate at the bottom, in order that the wax flows out gently. For if you were to give it
 if you were to give it great heat until the wax came out, it would boil inside & leave some pustules
 cast, in order to always better secure the mold. Mixed tallow is the reason that, when emptying the wax, the hole
 mold. Mixed tallow is the reason that, when emptying the wax , the hole does not become obstructed. One needs half
 wax, the hole does not become obstructed. One needs half tallow & half black wax. All very thick pieces come out
 does not become obstructed. One needs half tallow & half black wax . All very thick pieces come out better in hollow,
 out better in hollow, because a thick mass of mostly lead remains hot a long time & eats the mold. You
 the hole on the natural one, and reattach it with solder . X Note that, after your core is cast, it
 is cast, it is better to put the mold in hot water to open it, in order to remove the most wax
 water to open it, in order to remove the most wax that you can, always softening a it in hot water.
 most wax that you can, always softening a it in hot water . For the less wax that remains in it, the
 always softening a it in hot water. For the less wax that remains in it, the better, in order that, when
 made in it. And then, if there is hardly any wax , you will not need to reheat it as much.
 can easily be repaired, even though you cast A the white wax with which you have composed your black sulfured wax, has
 A the white wax with which you have composed your black sulfured wax , has such little substance, since being dry and purified,
 leaves nothing inside, and flows very gently. As for the charcoal which is mixed in, if some remains, it burns &
 mixed in, if some remains, it burns & reduces to ash & is emptied afterward by blowing through the gate. You
 the gate. You could even open your mold after the wax has melted, if there is no fanciful thing which could
 thing or similar. After having covered the clamps with the lute from your sand & having covered all of the mold,
 After having covered the clamps with the lute from your sand & having covered all of the mold, give it on
 of the mold, give it on top a layer of common lute , & then sprinkle this with some pestled brick, in
 layer of common lute, & then sprinkle this with some pestled brick , in order that you can handle it better. Let
 in order that you can handle it better. Let the lute dry slowly before firing it, which melts the wax. The
 the lute dry slowly before firing it, which melts the wax . The wax having left through the gate, that which
 dry slowly before firing it, which melts the wax. The wax having left through the gate, that which remains with the
 having left through the gate, that which remains with the charcoal will burn. Being reheated for the first time, lute it
 the charcoal will burn. Being reheated for the first time, lute it pou once more, to reheat it the second time
 once more, to reheat it the second time because the plaster , not being good, will have readily made the mold
 to reheat it if you only want to cast in lead or tin, but rather only make sure that the lute
 it if you only want to cast in lead or tin , but rather only make sure that the lute is
 lead or tin, but rather only make sure that the lute is quite dry & the mold moderately hot. For these
 enough thickness, it is better to mold ault cast your lead an alloy half of lead & half of tin, especially
 to mold ault cast your lead an alloy half of lead & half of tin, especially for hollow things. For, if
 your lead an alloy half of lead & half of tin , especially for hollow things. For, if you only have
 to cast, like flowers, rely rather on the abundance of lead than of tin, which becomes porous once cast a little
 flowers, rely rather on the abundance of lead than of tin , which becomes porous once cast a little thick, &
 Alexandre says that he has never gone wrong with half tin & half lead for things weighty & with the thickness
 he has never gone wrong with half tin & half lead for things weighty & with the thickness of the back
 thickness of the back of a knife. If there is crocum , the joints hardly appear, & consequently, the flashing is
 repair & through the hole of the belly, pull the earth of the core, leaving it wet a long time; When
 it wet a long time; When you have cast your black wax in the a mold, & when it is quite cold,
 halfway, to make the cast. And if the figure of black wax breaks, there is no danger, for it can always be
 danger, for it can always be reattached with a hot iron touching point. Or else, if the pieces are not separated
 the figure is large, one needs to cross inside many iron wires to sustain the core. A only in lead or tin.
 many iron wires to sustain the core. A only in lead or tin. However, one needs to redden the mold nearly
 wires to sustain the core. A only in lead or tin . However, one needs to redden the mold nearly as
 were inside some animal to burn, in order that the wax melts well & leaves nothing inside & flows on its
 and draw toward yourself, while sucking, in order that the ashes of the wax come out. Do this with bellows. however, do not remove
 have completely repaired the turtle, for you will use this earth as cement if you need to embed something or repair
 repaired the turtle, for you will use this earth as cement if you need to embed something or repair with the
 that presuppose being large enough, cast your alloy of half lead & half fine tin. There is more work in molding
 large enough, cast your alloy of half lead & half fine tin . There is more work in molding a turtle than
 than for twelve molds of flowers. If there is some crocum in your sand, there will not be flashing, & if,
 molds of flowers. If there is some crocum in your sand , there will not be flashing, & if, by some
 is some on the sides, it will be thinner than paper , as long as your mold is tightened well with
 small chisels, small cutting-punches, small gouges & small serrated chisels. Wheat oil One needs to make it between two quite sparkling hot
 One needs to make it between two quite sparkling hot iron plates , especially the lower one, which will be sloping, on
 which will be sloping, on which you will put some wheat , quite even & uniform. And then you will place
 top, & you will press it until you see the black oil drip well. Reiterate that until you have enough of it.
 well. Reiterate that until you have enough of it. This oil dries immediately. It gives gold color to silvered & burnished
 it. This oil dries immediately. It gives gold color to silvered & burnished things, augments the color of gilded things, serves
 color to silvered & burnished things, augments the color of gilded things, serves as a varnish on iron for etching on
 things, augments the color of gilded things, serves as a varnish on iron for etching on it afterward, for varnishing sword
 the color of gilded things, serves as a varnish on iron for etching on it afterward, for varnishing sword guards tawny.
 varnishing sword guards tawny. And could also serve makers of gilded leather well. One needs to use it when it is newly
 a fly & suchlike. It is also excellent for coloring false white stones . Molding a rat The hairs of its whiskers would
 Syracuse, & afterward you can replace them with d’arg natural silvered ones. The tail is beautiful molded because it is made
 candle. The rest of the body should be anointed with wheat oil , which will keep the hair stiff & couched, so
 will keep the hair stiff & couched, so that the sand will not raise it by getting entangled in it to
 getting entangled in it to prevent coming out neatly. The wheat oil being dry, which will be quick, you will be able
 cast. On a small mouse, you can even put some common oil to lower the hair. And before molding these animals (except
 you will be able to substitute in the eyes the halves of well-rounded peas , stripped of their skin & shell. Some make the
 shell. Some make the rat shed, others anoint it with olive oil , which is amiable, for wheat oil is thick &
 others anoint it with olive oil, which is amiable, for wheat oil is thick & has too much body. This is why
 to keep them rigid. Others couch the hair with an egg yolk , which is quickly dry & amiable. Shape it, before
 yolk, which is quickly dry & amiable. Shape it, before oiling it, on the clay slab, and raise its head with
 dry & amiable. Shape it, before oiling it, on the clay slab, and raise its head with an iron point, &
 on the clay slab, and raise its head with an iron point, & secure also the feet with points, & the
 the feet with points, & the tail. Rub it with eau-de-vie , once dry from the oil. Then, cast your sand;
 the tail. Rub it with eau-de-vie, once dry from the oil . Then, cast your sand; next, uncover it like other
 with eau-de-vie, once dry from the oil. Then, cast your sand ; next, uncover it like other animals, & make the
 is not possible to mold well an animal that has biggish bones , like a bird or rat, without opening the mold
 rat, without opening the mold to clean it well, for bones do not calcine. All feathers & all hair is awkward
 all hair is awkward to mold according to its nature. Butter for anointing hairy animals is better e than wheat oil,
 nature. Butter for anointing hairy animals is better e than wheat oil , because it is more amiable. If the rat is
 in the mold, or from the cast, or from the metal . The fault in the mold comes from plaster, which
 from the metal. The fault in the mold comes from plaster , which is not hard & strong and does not
 not withstand fire (which is corrected by mixing it with crocum ). Usually as well, if there is an imperfection, it
 is from the cast. If there is also too much tin in a moderately thick thing, it does not come out
 moderately thick thing, it does not come out well, because tin cast thick retracts & becomes porous. Also, things molded hollow
 to cast. If, therefore, some flaw should happen, take a leather cushionet full of fine sand, & having placed it on
 some flaw should happen, take a leather cushionet full of fine sand , & having placed it on the bequet of the
 it with a rope which passes under your foot. The sand in the bag obeys & arranges itself by and by,
 and notch around the edge, then imprint this with some wax . And place the imprint on a delicate plate of
 this with some wax. And place the imprint on a delicate plate of lead , & mark thus the appropriate measure of lead or
 plate of lead, & mark thus the appropriate measure of lead or of the alloy similar to your substance, then place
 of the notched thing & attach it well with some latten wire , then rub the edge with rosin if it is
 well with some latten wire, then rub the edge with rosin if it is tin or lead & place all around
 wire, then rub the edge with rosin if it is tin or lead & place all around some small thin pieces
 rub the edge with rosin if it is tin or lead & place all around some small thin pieces of solder
 lead & place all around some small thin pieces of solder or tin or other things, then with a hot iron
 place all around some small thin pieces of solder or tin or other things, then with a hot iron or in
 solder or tin or other things, then with a hot iron or in the fire of the forge, solder, and next
 a hot iron or in the fire of the forge, solder , and next repair this with the aforesaid tools &
 the aforesaid tools & with the appropriate small chisels. For gold & small work, one needs to cement it on a
 work, one needs to cement it on a ball of lead , which will be placed on the cushionet & will
 for seals or other things First, model your figure in wax on a piece of glass or smooth slate. Next, mold
 First, model your figure in wax on a piece of glass or smooth slate. Next, mold it with our aforesaid sand,
 figure in wax on a piece of glass or smooth slate . Next, mold it with our aforesaid sand, l’ having
 glass or smooth slate. Next, mold it with our aforesaid sand , l’ having first anointed lightly with oil, as you
 with our aforesaid sand, l’ having first anointed lightly with oil , as you know, & then rubbed with eau-de-vie, having
 lightly with oil, as you know, & then rubbed with eau-de-vie , having and tempering your sand with hot water. Having
 know, & then rubbed with eau-de-vie, having and tempering your sand with hot water. Having the hollow form, cast it in
 then rubbed with eau-de-vie, having and tempering your sand with hot water . Having the hollow form, cast it in alloyed lead,
 with hot water. Having the hollow form, cast it in alloyed lead , in the same form as other figures that you
 neatly, repair it. And then, cast some mold with some wax on the relief of lead, & you will have a
 cast some mold with some wax on the relief of lead , & you will have a very neat hollow form
 you will have a very neat hollow form in the wax , which comes out very neatly on the lead. Next,
 in the wax, which comes out very neatly on the lead . Next, in the hollow form of wax, cast your
 neatly on the lead. Next, in the hollow form of wax , cast your tempered sand, which will make for you
 lead. Next, in the hollow form of wax, cast your tempered sand , which will make for you a relief, on which
 relief, on which you will cast your hollow form in silver or another metal for seals. But note that you should
 you will cast your hollow form in silver or another metal for seals. But note that you should not make your
 note that you should not make your hollow form with melted wax , but rather, only heated in warm water, or, even
 hollow form with melted wax, but rather, only heated in warm water , or, even better, in warm urine. Or else, if
 rather, only heated in warm water, or, even better, in warm urine . Or else, if you have a relief of gold
 warm urine. Or else, if you have a relief of gold or silver, or other metal, very faço neat & repaired,
 Or else, if you have a relief of gold or silver , or other metal, very faço neat & repaired, imprint
 you have a relief of gold or silver, or other metal , very faço neat & repaired, imprint on top your
 neat & repaired, imprint on top your hollow form of wax , & then in the latter, cast your sand, which
 form of wax, & then in the latter, cast your sand , which will come out in relief, on which you
 could even cast a hollow form on the principal of metal relief, & even with lead & tin, which will not
 form on the principal of metal relief, & even with lead & tin, which will not melt the principal if it
 the principal of metal relief, & even with lead & tin , which will not melt the principal if it is
 not melt the principal if it is lightly anointed with crushed chalk with a paintbrush, or smoked with candle smoke or with
 anointed with crushed chalk with a paintbrush, or smoked with candle smoke or with dried glair of egg. When you have imprinted
 with a paintbrush, or smoked with candle smoke or with dried glair of egg . When you have imprinted your seal of wax, mold
 glair of egg. When you have imprinted your seal of wax , mold en noyau this piece of wax, which is
 your seal of wax, mold en noyau this piece of wax , which is hollow, like your seal, & your noyau
 the imprint & the seal. It is necessary that your wax be mixed with some color which hardly has body in
 has body in order that you see the imprint better. Lamp smoke or soot black is good for this. White wax, for
 order that you see the imprint better. Lamp smoke or soot black is good for this. White wax, for this effect, is
 better. Lamp smoke or soot black is good for this. White wax , for this effect, is exc better. Giving the thickness
 wish to a medal Having cast your first mold, mix crocum or well-ground iron scales to firm it up. And having
 a medal Having cast your first mold, mix crocum or well-ground iron scales to firm it up. And having set & rendered your
 your hollow form very neat, take some paste of fine flour . And to flatten it, take a small stick of
 flour. And to flatten it, take a small stick of boxwood , very round & of the same thickness everywhere, which
 than the rest, to give the necessary thickness to the paste . And then, with this rolling pin, flatten it in
 hollow of your mold and press on it with some cotton & your figure will imprint itself in the paste, in
 some cotton & your figure will imprint itself in the paste , in relief on one side & in a hollow
 This done, anoint with a paintbrush, wetted in a little melted butter , the part of the paste which is hollow. Then,
 wetted in a little melted butter, the part of the paste which is hollow. Then, cut the excess paste which surpasses
 of the paste which is hollow. Then, cut the excess paste which surpasses the hollow of the mold H. Anoint your
 hollow of the mold H. Anoint your mold also with olive oil , as you have done with others, place the clay
 olive oil, as you have done with others, place the clay contour & cast s your second mold. And you will
 more raised than others, to make various thicknesses, or use sheets of lead & copper of various thicknesses or of carton, cut with the rolling
 sheets of lead & copper of various thicknesses or of carton , cut with the rolling pin. If you were to
 with the rolling pin. If you were to rub your paste with oil, it would drink the oil & penetrate up
 rolling pin. If you were to rub your paste with oil , it would drink the oil & penetrate up to
 to rub your paste with oil, it would drink the oil & penetrate up to the mold, which it would attack.
 penetrate up to the mold, which it would attack. But butter remains on the surface of the paste & is not
 would attack. But butter remains on the surface of the paste & is not imbibed at all. You should not, on
 all. You should not, on these reverse sides, temper your sand with hot water, for it would melt the butter. Testing
 should not, on these reverse sides, temper your sand with hot water , for it would melt the butter. Testing the goodness
 your sand with hot water, for it would melt the butter . Testing the goodness and strength of a sand to
 melt the butter. Testing the goodness and strength of a sand to be reheated After it has set, it must be
 the fire & the small one is soon reheated. Softening gold Sometimes, there is gold so dry it that neither cement
 small one is soon reheated. Softening gold Sometimes, there is gold so dry it that neither cement nor antimony can soften
 gold Sometimes, there is gold so dry it that neither cement nor antimony can soften it. But only verdet can render
 there is gold so dry it that neither cement nor antimony can soften it. But only verdet can render it soft.
 that neither cement nor antimony can soften it. But only verdet can render it soft. Gold not being fixed Gold as
 can soften it. But only verdet can render it soft. Gold not being fixed Gold as gilding goes away once the
 only verdet can render it soft. Gold not being fixed Gold as gilding goes away once the piece is reheated & kept in
 & kept in high heat, especially if there is some lead , for lead will pierce in the fire a piece
 in high heat, especially if there is some lead, for lead will pierce in the fire a piece with gold, because
 for lead will pierce in the fire a piece with gold , because it holds closely with ☿. Cutting lead Because
 fire a piece with gold, because it holds closely with ☿ . Cutting lead Because it is fatty & grips &
 piece with gold, because it holds closely with ☿. Cutting lead Because it is fatty & grips & sticks to the
 or chisel, wet it & you will cut it like glass . Sometimes gold & silver take on, through certain fumes,
 wet it & you will cut it like glass. Sometimes gold & silver take on, through certain fumes, some color during
 & you will cut it like glass. Sometimes gold & silver take on, through certain fumes, some color during the casting.
 scales & crust, but rather this color goes away with whitening & bullitoire. Sweetening silver When goldsmiths who work large wares
 crust, but rather this color goes away with whitening & bullitoire . Sweetening silver When goldsmiths who work large wares have
 rather this color goes away with whitening & bullitoire. Sweetening silver When goldsmiths who work large wares have forged their platters,
 avoid this, throw in, when it is well melted, some dry mortar composed of sand & good lime which has been worked,
 when it is well melted, some dry mortar composed of sand & good lime which has been worked, & pulverize it
 is well melted, some dry mortar composed of sand & good lime which has been worked, & pulverize it & throw it
 it in. Goldsmiths do not work at all with the silver from reals that is not alloyed, because it is leady & when
 silver from reals that is not alloyed, because it is leady & when forging it sours. Some solder, for small works
 beaten. However, if the sou is not very good, the solder eats away & one needs to solder there twice, &
 to solder there twice, & one finds there too much copper . Others solder with half silver & half fine copper.
 one finds there too much copper. Others solder with half silver & half fine copper. Iron scales Once well pulverized &
 too much copper. Others solder with half silver & half fine copper . Iron scales Once well pulverized & ground on marble,
 copper. Others solder with half silver & half fine copper. Iron scales Once well pulverized & ground on marble, & mixed with
 fine copper. Iron scales Once well pulverized & ground on marble , & mixed with the aforesaid sand of noyau, and
 pulverized & ground on marble, & mixed with the aforesaid sand of noyau , and dried slowly without reheating, it endures several casts
 and dried slowly without reheating, it endures several casts of lead & tin. Copper & latten come out well. But if
 slowly without reheating, it endures several casts of lead & tin . Copper & latten come out well. But if it
 without reheating, it endures several casts of lead & tin. Copper & latten come out well. But if it is not
 it endures several casts of lead & tin. Copper & latten come out well. But if it is not well ground,
 out well. But if it is not well ground, like crocum , it goes to the bottom, if the sand is
 ground, like crocum, it goes to the bottom, if the sand is not tempered thickly enough. Metal filings They are not
 the bottom, if the sand is not tempered thickly enough. Metal filings They are not made by themselves if they are not
 if they are not aided by some portion of similar metal , melted to assemble them & put them in a
 in a bath, for they are sooner burned than melted. Tin and lead filings are made with tallow, the one of gold with salpeter,
 burned than melted. Tin and lead filings are made with tallow , the one of gold with salpeter, the one of
 than melted. Tin and lead filings are made with tallow, the one of gold with salpeter, the one of silver with sandiver. Latten It
 filings are made with tallow, the one of gold with salpeter , the one of silver with sandiver. Latten It is
 made with tallow, the one of gold with salpeter, the one of silver with sandiver. Latten It is very capricious to cast. It
 one of gold with salpeter, the one of silver with sandiver . Latten It is very capricious to cast. It must
 of gold with salpeter, the one of silver with sandiver. Latten It is very capricious to cast. It must be cast
 And to better achieve your goal, throw on it some sal ammoniac to thin it. Alloy it as well with a little
 to thin it. Alloy it as well with a little red copper and, when you want to cast, a little tin to
 red copper and, when you want to cast, a little tin to make it run better. It always leaves a tail
 make it run better. It always leaves a tail like melted glass . It does not require as long a gate as
 fire do not receive the cast so well. Casting of silver Silver needs a longish gate. For gold it does not
 do not receive the cast so well. Casting of silver Silver needs a longish gate. For gold it does not matter.
 well. Casting of silver Silver needs a longish gate. For gold it does not matter. Silver, when soldering, tolerates the water
 needs a longish gate. For gold it does not matter. Silver , when soldering, tolerates the water one throws on it.
 gold it does not matter. Silver, when soldering, tolerates the water one throws on it. But gold would spatter, & needs
 when soldering, tolerates the water one throws on it. But gold would spatter, & needs that for that reason, one casts
 would spatter, & needs that for that reason, one casts solder bran on the solder. Let the mold cool well after
 spatter, & needs that for that reason, one casts solder bran on the solder. Let the mold cool well after the
 that for that reason, one casts solder bran on the solder . Let the mold cool well after the casting before
 flowers & delicate things & herbage, one does not use wheat oil but melted butter, of which one gives a light #
 things & herbage, one does not use wheat oil but melted butter , of which one gives a light # coat on
 the little legs of flies & other small animals with wheat oil to strengthen them & make them hold up. with a
 The leaves are cast separately & then are joined with solder . And because the strawberry fruit is cast solid, &
 cast solid, & by that means is heavy, and the tin stem which is delicate will not be able to hold
 it up without soon breaking, one makes the stems with latten wire & then one solders & joins them. Molding a rose
 one makes the stems with latten wire & then one solders & joins them. Molding a rose Because the little branches
 rose & some buds separately. And then one joins with solder the little branches & leaves of the rose bush to
 as low as you can in the mold because the sand always raises it up. You en can also mold several
 regarding the rose, you can give a thin layer of melted butter on the back of the petal, of on the first
 give it the strength to withstand, in order that the tempered sand does not spread out & expand more than it should.
 opening your mold when it is reheated, & cleaning the ashes from it, All and making vents & several gates. And
 other can also be done. And with small veins of wax adapted & joined from leaf to leaf, you can make
 can make gates. You can even make a vein of wax from the back of the first petal until, which will
 than cleaning them & blowing inside them to make the wax come out, because when the mold is hot, the ash
 wax come out, because when the mold is hot, the ash holds to it as if attached. But when it is
 stalks that support the leaves, anointing them lightly underneath with melted butter , because the leaves are large & weighty, and the
 the leaves are large & weighty, and the stalk of lead & tin would not have enough strength. I would be
 are large & weighty, and the stalk of lead & tin would not have enough strength. I would be of the
 & then to join it to a longer one of tinned latten , because the rose in full bloom has great volume
 bloom has great volume & weight. Wet the rose with eau-de-vie before putting it in the circle of clay. Do not
 rose with eau-de-vie before putting it in the circle of clay . Do not forget to oil the wax gate. And
 it in the circle of clay. Do not forget to oil the wax gate. And when you have cast your tempered
 the circle of clay. Do not forget to oil the wax gate. And when you have cast your tempered sand, blow
 oil the wax gate. And when you have cast your tempered sand , blow thoroughly until it begins to set. The rose
 to set. The rose came out well. But because the sand finds itself mixed among the petals, make your work soak
 itself mixed among the petals, make your work soak in water for a long time in order that, shaking it in
 a long time in order that, shaking it in the water , the earth is gone from it. Rose Because the
 time in order that, shaking it in the water, the earth is gone from it. Rose Because the flower in full
 as it has weight ou for that the stem of tin , which is brittle & delicate, would be unable to
 stem of the bud, on which one grafts next & solders a stalk of latten wire to which one also solders
 on which one grafts next & solders a stalk of latten wire to which one also solders the leaves. But because tin,
 solders a stalk of latten wire to which one also solders the leaves. But because tin, being thus thin, is troublesome
 wire to which one also solders the leaves. But because tin , being thus thin, is troublesome to solder, and any
 leaves. But because tin, being thus thin, is troublesome to solder , and any leaf can be melted, and also because
 beautiful without being painted, one does not take pains to solder , but one it grafts the pieces to join them
 one it grafts the pieces to join them & one glues them with fish glue that has been a little tempered
 the pieces to join them & one glues them with fish glue that has been a little tempered & thickly melted. And
 And in order that it imprints better, one heats the tin work gently & at a distance, for once cold, the
 work gently & at a distance, for once cold, the glue would not take. After your flower is thus repaired, you
 repaired, you follow the joints of the added parts with modeling wax esb, which is a white wax mixed with much well-ground
 the added parts with modeling wax esb, which is a white wax mixed with much well-ground ceruse or, even better, lead white,
 wax esb, which is a white wax mixed with much well-ground ceruse or, even better, lead white, melting it & applying it
 white wax mixed with much well-ground ceruse or, even better, lead white , melting it & applying it on your work with
 it on your work with a small hot point of iron . In this way you can repair these little barbs
 rose according to nature. If you cast your rose in gold or silver, you can join & solder well. And in
 to nature. If you cast your rose in gold or silver , you can join & solder well. And in these
 your rose in gold or silver, you can join & solder well. And in these same metals, when you have something
 you can join & solder well. And in these same metals , when you have something delicate to join to the
 join to the flower, like a fly or something similar, fish glue is singular for it & holds very well, fixing it
 relief You can imprint the relief of a medal in colored wax , & you will have a hollow form, in which
 which you can cast en noyau a relief of your sand , on which you will make a hollow form of
 sand, on which you will make a hollow form of lead or tin, in which you will cast a wax relief.
 which you will make a hollow form of lead or tin , in which you will cast a wax relief. And
 of lead or tin, in which you will cast a wax relief. And then on that wax you will make your
 you will cast a wax relief. And then on that wax you will make your mold en noyau hollow, to cast
 mold en noyau hollow, to cast there the relief of gold & silver or any other metal you like. But to
 noyau hollow, to cast there the relief of gold & silver or any other metal you like. But to hasten your
 there the relief of gold & silver or any other metal you like. But to hasten your work if you are
 a hurry, make the first imprint & hollow form in bread pith , prepared as you know, which will mold very neatly.
 which will mold very neatly. And into that, cast in melted wax , which will give you a beautiful relief on which
 will make your noyau. Very light and hollow work of gold Cast a lizard or any medal you like in base
 gold Cast a lizard or any medal you like in base silver , like billon. Next, gild it lightly. And once the
 any medal you like in base silver, like billon. Next, gild it lightly. And once the first gilding is done &
 like billon. Next, gild it lightly. And once the first gilding is done & dried by fire, brighten, rub with a
 rub with a scratch-brush, & make another layer of light gilding like the first time, & do thus three or four
 hole in the least visible place, put your work into good aquafortis , which penetrating to the silver through the hole will
 put your work into good aquafortis, which penetrating to the silver through the hole will eat it all away without damaging
 the hole will eat it all away without damaging the gold , so that you will have a lizard hollow to
 it. But take heed not to make the layer of amalgamated gold all at once, or of hardly any thickness each time,
 cleaning well, you will do well. In order for the aquafortis to eat away better, it is necessary to cast cast
 eat away better, it is necessary to cast cast in base silver . Chasing Lead is so fatty & soft that one
 it is necessary to cast cast in base silver. Chasing Lead is so fatty & soft that one cannot strike it
 one needs to have a very light hand. The other great metals are easier. With a burin called the onglet you make
 they are, anoint lightly their down & capricious hair with olive oil to lay it down. Also take them and use them
 a sage leaf or similar. They are cast well in silver & gold, but one usually makes the legs & wings
 leaf or similar. They are cast well in silver & gold , but one usually makes the legs & wings separately
 its legs au on the widest leaf with a little wax, melted & reattached with a hot iron wire point. And in
 with a little wax, melted & reattached with a hot iron wire point. And in order that the wings come out better,
 come out better, I anointed the underside of these with melted butter with a little paintbrush. And with the same hot iron
 butter with a little paintbrush. And with the same hot iron wire point, I anointed the legs & feet with wheat oil.
 iron wire point, I anointed the legs & feet with wheat oil . And to lay down & couch the downy hair
 that it had, I anointed it also with a little olive oil . I did not leave the wheat oil to dry
 with a little olive oil. I did not leave the wheat oil to dry a lot, because it is thick & has
 lot, because it is thick & has body, & the eau-de-vie does not take at all. For unction, a tallow is
 the eau-de-vie does not take at all. For unction, a tallow is too harsh, pork fat is too soft, and butter
 take at all. For unction, a tallow is too harsh, pork fat is too soft, and butter is the most excellent because
 tallow is too harsh, pork fat is too soft, and butter is the most excellent because it is soon dry &
 that which exceeds would not come out well, especially in silver , because this would exceed the, so fine, would be
 & remained in the void did not come out in tin . The rest of the fly came out well, and
 is very beautiful molded. One could even cast it in gold & silver, without the feet & without applying it on
 beautiful molded. One could even cast it in gold & silver , without the feet & without applying it on a
 by making the gate under the belly & reattaching with solder the feet &, if need be, the wings with the
 feet &, if need be, the wings with the same metal , & it could be enamelled by fortifying the wings
 the wings with the same metal, & it could be enamelled by fortifying the wings a little, & the feet, as
 below. And then paint according to nature. Once cast in gold , one enamels the wings with window glass from Lorraine,
 then paint according to nature. Once cast in gold, one enamels the wings with window glass from Lorraine, which is verdesin
 nature. Once cast in gold, one enamels the wings with window glass from Lorraine , which is verdesin and transparent. One needs to make
 gate for the fly from the bottom in order with melted wax , adapted with the iron point, as you know, to
 the bottom in order with melted wax, adapted with the iron point, as you know, to which the fly attaches itself,
 know, to which the fly attaches itself, & then the wax , while melting, serves as a gate for the fly.
 flaw happens to the wings of your fly, beat some tin very thin, &or some gold or silver if you have
 of your fly, beat some tin very thin, &or some gold or silver if you have cast it in it, &
 fly, beat some tin very thin, &or some gold or silver if you have cast it in it, & with trim
 there, & next, apply it with your small pincers & glue it with fish glue, prepared as put below. And before,
 apply it with your small pincers & glue it with fish glue , prepared as put below. And before, heat lightly your
 work, in order that its coldness does not refuse the glue , which will be soon dry, heating it from afar.
 cover lightly the joints of the reattached thing with some modeling wax , which is white wax mixed with a lot of
 of the reattached thing with some modeling wax, which is white wax mixed with a lot of ceruse or lead white, melting
 wax, which is white wax mixed with a lot of ceruse or lead white, melting it well with a hot iron
 is white wax mixed with a lot of ceruse or lead white , melting it well with a hot iron point. You
 ceruse or lead white, melting it well with a hot iron point. You will also cut some small bits of spinet
 iron point. You will also cut some small bits of spinet strings & glue with the said glue, & once dry, that
 will also cut some small bits of spinet strings & glue with the said glue, & once dry, that is to
 small bits of spinet strings & glue with the said glue , & once dry, that is to say the feet,
 repair with this. You will thicken them with the same melted wax , to render them equal. A means of goldsmiths for
 means of goldsmiths for molding hollow They mold in two cuttlefish bones their animal or other work that they have either already
 work that they have either already made or modelled in wax & cast in lead. Once it is well imprinted in
 either already made or modelled in wax & cast in lead . Once it is well imprinted in the two cuttlefish
 in lead. Once it is well imprinted in the two cuttlefish bones , they place between these two bones a paper, &
 in the two cuttlefish bones, they place between these two bones a paper, & join the bones & cast. The work
 two cuttlefish bones, they place between these two bones a paper , & join the bones & cast. The work comes
 place between these two bones a paper, & join the bones & cast. The work comes out split in half. And
 as finely as they please the two halves cast in gold or silver, and then solder or braze them. Rouge clair
 as they please the two halves cast in gold or silver , and then solder or braze them. Rouge clair Some
 the two halves cast in gold or silver, and then solder or braze them. Rouge clair Some goldsmiths assay it on
 in gold or silver, and then solder or braze them. Rouge clair Some goldsmiths assay it on gold, thinly beaten esp &
 or braze them. Rouge clair Some goldsmiths assay it on gold, thinly beaten esp & well burnished with a chaple . But it is better to assay it on a
 chaple. But it is better to assay it on a gold ingot . And also assay your substances in large or fantastical
 a common work. Cleaning and degreasing your works cast from tin and others Make some lye, carefully passed through good ashes,
 degreasing your works cast from tin and others Make some lye , carefully passed through good ashes, and since it is
 from tin and others Make some lye, carefully passed through good ashes , and since it is recent & not fatty, boil
 not fatty, boil your molded work in it. And the tallow and fat leaves it. Arranging plants or flowers for casting
 boil your molded work in it. And the tallow and fat leaves it. Arranging plants or flowers for casting Always put
 the masselote for founders of large castings), Et especially for silver , which wants the mold quite hot & to be
 a mold which does not open, is quite reduced to ashes , it is a sign that the rest is well
 the legs fall off. And if this happens to you, glue with fish glue the same legs and with wax, or
 fall off. And if this happens to you, glue with fish glue the same legs and with wax, or fashion some out
 you, glue with fish glue the same legs and with wax , or fashion some out of swine bristle or spinet
 same legs and with wax, or fashion some out of swine bristle or spinet string. Fix the leaf on the clay slab
 with wax, or fashion some out of swine bristle or spinet string . Fix the leaf on the clay slab with two
 swine bristle or spinet string. Fix the leaf on the clay slab with two points, and the fly with one point
 the middle of the body, & the legs with some wax . Ash in the molds One needs to let the
 middle of the body, & the legs with some wax. Ash in the molds One needs to let the mold cool
 to let the mold cool before blowing to make the ashes go out. For when the mold is hot, they adhere
 to do this, place it on its side on a clay slab, and hide & sink within it half the said
 leg & one foot, then you will anoint it with butter to make it hold the feathers down, finally ofoil eau-de-vie.
 butter to make it hold the feathers down, finally of oil eau-de-vie. And then cast. And being set, clean & uncover
 butter to make it hold the feathers down, finally ofoil eau-de-vie . And then cast. And being set, clean & uncover
 in the same way. But because the feet, being of bone that is difficult to burn & which are not able
 & which are not able to be cleaned neither by quicksilver If nor by any other means, if the mold would
 separate piece. Reheat & open your mold & clean the bones . The feet usually remain too weak to support the
 a solid bird. And for this reason, one adapts an iron wire in the mold of the feet which passes into the
 model a form that will be stiff & withstand the tempered sand . They are skinned & filled with cotton cloth. &
 withstand the tempered sand. They are skinned & filled with cotton cloth . & even better, one needs to dress them in
 curriers do, in order that they do not lose a feather , weight it. The dressing is alum & paste of
 do not lose a feather, weight it. The dressing is alum & paste of flour. For making h… wine f…rs Take
 lose a feather, weight it. The dressing is alum & paste of flour . For making h… wine f…rs Take a sock from
 has been worn and make drink at it soak in water , and of the water that comes out, make that
 make drink at it soak in water, and of the water that comes out, make that same person or someone else
 or someone else drink it, and you will see marvels. Mercury in the molds for cleaning Heed well that your mold
 your mold be quite cold before blowing to make the ash go out, and next put in the ☿ to achieve
 make the ash go out, and next put in the ☿ to achieve the cleaning. For if the mold is hot,
 achieve the cleaning. For if the mold is hot, the ☿ penetrates within &, in flight, seeks out conduits & leaves
 conduits & leaves an odor of itself, which sours the tin or other metal that you will cast there so much
 an odor of itself, which sours the tin or other metal that you will cast there so much that it will
 it even slightly. The heat of the mold also retains small grains of ☿ that make lumps, & contracting to the edge of the
 leaves, are joined there & make the leaves frangible. The ☿ cleans the ash well, especially flat things where there are
 there & make the leaves frangible. The ☿ cleans the ash well, especially flat things where there are not delicate lineaments
 But if it is necessary to use it, mix your sand with crocum in order that it withstands the fire well.
 it is necessary to use it, mix your sand with crocum in order that it withstands the fire well. And after
 withstands the fire well. And after having put in the ☿ , evacuate it, turning the mouth of the mold downwards.
 downwards. Next, reheat the mold gently in order that the ☿ be gone from everywhere. In this way I have cast
 very neatly, having given to the flower a layer of melted butter on the back of the flower with a paintbrush. Reheat
 red before q casting in it, in order that the ☿ exhales well. Colors for green leaves One usually paints them
 well. Colors for green leaves One usually paints them in oil , because distemper colors have no hold. For marigold flowers,
 for green leaves One usually paints them in oil, because distemper colors have no hold. For marigold flowers, lightly ground minium
 oil, because distemper colors have no hold. For marigold flowers, lightly ground minium for some, & for others which are more yellowish, a
 & for others which are more yellowish, a bit of massicot with it. For green, the verdigris has depth & is
 yellowish, a bit of massicot with it. For green, the verdigris has depth & is too dark. If it is a
 it is a yellowish green, you can mix with the verdigris a little yellow ocher & stil de grain yellow. If
 yellowish green, you can mix with the verdigris a little yellow ocher & stil de grain yellow. If the green is dark,
 can mix with the verdigris a little yellow ocher & stil de grain yellow . If the green is dark, put with it charcoal
 grain yellow. If the green is dark, put with it charcoal of peach tree pits , which makes a v greenish black, in the same
 v greenish black, in the same way that black of ox foot bone looks bluish. And thus, by judgment & discretion, put the
 thus, by judgment & discretion, put the color on the natural flower or leaf to see whether it comes close. But layer it transparently,
 work. Large molds Because of the great weight of the metal , they want to be put in a press in
 in a press in order that they do not open. Candle smoke It makes it come out neater, & even if it
 no body. I have thus fumigated my noyau molds for tin & lead, and have cast in the cold mold, well
 I have thus fumigated my noyau molds for tin & lead , and have cast in the cold mold, well dried
 and it came out very neat. It is true that lead mixed with half of tin was very hot, because the
 neat. It is true that lead mixed with half of tin was very hot, because the medal was thick. Gate Even
 gate where typically the material becomes porous. Never forget to oil the wax gate when you mold plants or flowers, otherwise
 typically the material becomes porous. Never forget to oil the wax gate when you mold plants or flowers, otherwise it breaks
 or flowers, otherwise it breaks & cannot be taken out. Wax portraits If they are painted with colors on the wax,
 Wax portraits If they are painted with colors on the wax , & if the wax is not tinted & mixed
 are painted with colors on the wax, & if the wax is not tinted & mixed with color within, the color
 noyau, but the portrait is not spoiled. One needs to oil them lightly, bathing in eau-de-vie & tempering with hot water.
 not spoiled. One needs to oil them lightly, bathing in eau-de-vie & tempering with hot water. If they are varnished, one
 to oil them lightly, bathing in eau-de-vie & tempering with hot water . If they are varnished, one needs to mold them
 mold them two or three times to lift off the varnish , which sticks to the mold. After it is removed,
 will be able to mold nealy. If they are on wood , one needs to saturate the wood with very hot
 If they are on wood, one needs to saturate the wood with very hot melted wax, for otherwise the mold would
 are on wood, one needs to saturate the wood with very hot melted wax , for otherwise the mold would be attached to it.
 wax, for otherwise the mold would be attached to it. Lead white is much better for mixing with white wax than ceruse,
 to it. Lead white is much better for mixing with white wax than ceruse, for lead white is firmer & whiter. Chiseling
 white is much better for mixing with white wax than ceruse , for lead white is firmer & whiter. Chiseling If
 much better for mixing with white wax than ceruse, for lead white is firmer & whiter. Chiseling If the small chisel has
 it all. Otherwise, it would look like a joined piece. Fish glue Beat it very fine & thin on a well-cleaned anvil,
 thin on a well-cleaned anvil, & next wet it with eau-de-vie over ch hot ashes & a low fire, & it
 well-cleaned anvil, & next wet it with eau-de-vie over ch hot ashes & a low fire, & it will be quickly melted;
 & if it is not strong & thick enough, add eau-de-vie . And take heed them not to put it to
 strongly. With it one joins flowers & delicate things of gold , of silver, of tin & other materials, which are
 it one joins flowers & delicate things of gold, of silver , of tin & other materials, which are in danger
 joins flowers & delicate things of gold, of silver, of tin & other materials, which are in danger of spoiling if
 & other materials, which are in danger of spoiling if soldered . Tin and lead They are beaten very thin without
 other materials, which are in danger of spoiling if soldered. Tin and lead They are beaten very thin without itself. And
 which are in danger of spoiling if soldered. Tin and lead They are beaten very thin without itself. And the tin
 lead They are beaten very thin without itself. And the tin does not sour & crack as lead often does, Ma
 itself. And the tin does not sour & crack as lead often does, Ma although it is more fatty, but one
 although it is more fatty, but one reheats it under hot ash . And it is necessary to beat them with several
 files Sometimes they are fattened, & by means of the grease , the lead, which is fatty in itself, or other
 they are fattened, & by means of the grease, the lead , which is fatty in itself, or other filings, attach
 grease, the lead, which is fatty in itself, or other filings , attach to it. And you will be able to
 And you will be able to clean them either with hot charcoal or a scratch brush made of wires of latten. Carnation
 either with hot charcoal or a scratch brush made of wires of latten. Carnation It is molded like the rose, marigold & all
 leaves, if you want, in two halves, joining them by solder for the most secure way, even if you could mold
 that came out very well. But one needs very thin sand & to blow strongly. Molds Make the two sides so
 where the back of the animal is is usually thicker. Plaster alone Reheated stone plaster fears is undone in water, but
 of the animal is is usually thicker. Plaster alone Reheated stone plaster fears is undone in water, but that which is reheated
 thicker. Plaster alone Reheated stone plaster fears is undone in water , but that which is reheated & first pulverized and
 But if it is good, it hardens in it, like the one of Paris & Spain , which is hard in stone, as is that which
 the one of Paris & Spain, which is hard in stone , as is that which grows in lean & dry
 grows in lean & dry earth and which seems like white salt . Germans make statues for their fountains with it, which
 are not spoiled, especially once varnished, but it hardens in water . When it is alone & not mixed, it sets
 mixed, it sets more quickly than otherwise. One needs to oil very lightly your molds that are of metal or stone,
 needs to oil very lightly your molds that are of metal or stone, otherwise it would not release. And however you
 oil very lightly your molds that are of metal or stone , otherwise it would not release. And however you oil,
 or stone, otherwise it would not release. And however you oil , you have to temper it with hot water. And
 And however you oil, you have to temper it with hot water . And when it has set & well cooled, one
 & well cooled, one needs to wet it sometimes in cold water , but if it refuses to open, in hot water
 in cold water, but if it refuses to open, in hot water & sometimes in boiling water. Sometimes one even needs to
 it refuses to open, in hot water & sometimes in boiling water . Sometimes one even needs to make the mold boil
 Sometimes one even needs to make the mold boil in hot water , as when you have molded some wax that you
 boil in hot water, as when you have molded some wax that you fear would not be easily released from it.
 that you fear would not be easily released from it. Cold water makes oil withdraw to the surface of the plaster that
 would not be easily released from it. Cold water makes oil withdraw to the surface of the plaster that has sucked
 Cold water makes oil withdraw to the surface of the plaster that has sucked it in, & thus it releases. Press
 Press for the large molds They are two sheets of iron attached by four small iron pillars, in such a way,
 They are two sheets of iron attached by four small iron pillars, in such a way, however, that they the upper
 fixed. At the end of the pillars is affixed an iron St. Andrew's cross, in the middle of which is a
 frame, & having put the molds between two plates of iron , one sets tightens them in the frame with wedges.
 sets tightens them in the frame with wedges. The large wooden presses made with screws, besides being heavy to put near
 plate, & by this means, raises it & presses it. Sand for flowers If it is cast thick, it bears down too much
 Cast at the side of the mold. And tempering the sand , one ought not only to turn the spatula but
 not only to turn the spatula but to beat the sand in water as if you were beating glair of egg.
 to turn the spatula but to beat the sand in water as if you were beating glair of egg. Molding a
 beat the sand in water as if you were beating glair of egg . Molding a foot or hand Mix resin among the
 beating glair of egg. Molding a foot or hand Mix resin among the wax, & having incorporated it well, soften them
 egg. Molding a foot or hand Mix resin among the wax , & having incorporated it well, soften them in hot
 the wax, & having incorporated it well, soften them in hot water or urine, & then make an imprint by pressing, &
 having incorporated it well, soften them in hot water or urine , & then make an imprint by pressing, & next
 then make an imprint by pressing, & next cast in plaster , & it will come out quite neat & will
 out quite neat & will release well. Delicate work of gold and of silver One can make flies from it by
 & will release well. Delicate work of gold and of silver One can make flies from it by hand without casting,
 casting, & the wings & feet can be joined by solder , which cannot be done with delicate works of lead
 by solder, which cannot be done with delicate works of lead & tin because they would melt. And the work of
 which cannot be done with delicate works of lead & tin because they would melt. And the work of gold can
 & tin because they would melt. And the work of gold can be enameled. Catching crayfish Attach to the tip of
 they would melt. And the work of gold can be enameled . Catching crayfish Attach to the tip of a stick
 Catching crayfish Attach to the tip of a stick some liver or lung of a cow or sheep , & with a small string you make a basket
 eat, & they will quickly come to accumulate on the flesh . Extract gently from the water, & those who want
 fall into the basket. Catching passerines If they sleep in straw , like they usually do, close to the house, leave
 the birds have molted, skin them & fill them with stuffing cloth &, or else dry them in an oven #. Then
 they are prepared better & dry by themselves. Preparation of sand for frames After your sand de noyau dalu of gip of lateribus
 dry by themselves. Preparation of sand for frames After your sand de noyau dalu of gip of lateribus & alume jameni was used en noyau, gather the pieces of molds, break
 sand for frames After your sand de noyau dalu of gip of lateribus & alume jameni was used en noyau, gather the pieces
 your sand de noyau dalu of gip of lateribus & alume jameni was used en noyau, gather the pieces of molds, break
 lateribus & alume jameni was used en noyau, gather the pieces of molds , break them on a long table with a large
 adequate dish or semal or vessel, and wet it with clear water , and grind it & stir with a thick stick
 stick until it is well wetted & washed & the filth goes to the surface of the water, & continue to
 washed & the filth goes to the surface of the water , & continue to stir it thus, like the gip
 the water, & continue to stir it thus, like the gip mat that one prepares to gild with burnished gold, five or
 like the gip mat that one prepares to gild with burnished gold , five or six days, until it is not at
 stir it again, leave it to rest & empty the clear water which will be on top by tilting or with a
 tilting or with a bowl or sponge, and put some clear water back in, & thus wash & stir it until it
 it until it is well fine & purged of all filth . Nota #. Next, leave it a little to drain
 dry, and make from it some little balls tempered in sal ammoniac water , and once thus d dried l, put them to
 mold something in a frame, having moistened your powder with sal ammoniac water . And reheat & redden the frame, & if your
 retracts, one needs to pulverize again & wet it in sal ammoniac water , reduce into little balls & reheat it & redden
 thing is that it is well reheated, for otherwise the sal ammoniac would not calcine well & render the sand coarse, &
 the sal ammoniac would not calcine well & render the sand coarse, & for this reason, one does not need too
 & for this reason, one does not need too much sal ammoniac in it. # Nota that one needs, before drying it,
 le empty the liquid in another common vessel, leaving the litharge , in order that the stones & earth remain at
 another common vessel, leaving the litharge, in order that the stones & earth remain at the bottom afterward. One needs to
 vessel, leaving the litharge, in order that the stones & earth remain at the bottom afterward. One needs to let it
 afterward. One needs to let it rest & empty the water by tilting, & leave it dry. nota Crocum ferri It
 empty the water by tilting, & leave it dry. nota Crocum ferri It is promptly made if you put the filings, well
 Crocum ferri It is promptly made if you put the filings , well cleaned & washed, in an iron case, two
 you put the filings, well cleaned & washed, in an iron case, two fingers high & covered, & redden it thus
 it thus in a reverberatory furnace, having washed it in good vinegar for the space of a day. And it will be
 well burnt p & clean, mixed and ground finely on marble . Being well ground & once it is quite fine
 well ground & once it is quite fine the, the vinegar will bite it quite easily & will soon give it
 casting than that which is redder & the color of minium bole, made of rusty filings coe, & has more tincture.
 than that which is redder & the color of minium bole , made of rusty filings coe, & has more tincture.
 is redder & the color of minium bole, made of rusty filings coe, & has more tincture. Others burn the filings several
 rusty filings coe, & has more tincture. Others burn the filings several times on a reddened iron shovel, showering it each
 tincture. Others burn the filings several times on a reddened iron shovel, showering it each time with vinegar. For the workshop
 on a reddened iron shovel, showering it each time with vinegar . For the workshop It can be gathered from the
 says that Gyges presented to the temple of Delphi pateras aureas sex pondo 30 talentorum. Gold vases Herodotus. Halyattes, the father
 the temple of Delphi pateras aureas sex pondo 30 talentorum. Gold vases Herodotus. Halyattes, the father of Croesus, pateram ex ferro
 Gold vases Herodotus. Halyattes, the father of Croesus, pateram ex ferro compactilem apud Delphos dedicavit spectatu dignam inter omnia quae sunt
 sunt Delphis donaria, opus Glauci Chii qui solus omnium compactionem ferri excogitavit. Compactile ferrum, which is made by assembly & things
 donaria, opus Glauci Chii qui solus omnium compactionem ferri excogitavit. Compactile ferrum , which is made by assembly & things joined. Iron
 Compactile ferrum, which is made by assembly & things joined. Iron vase joined and soldered As small peddlers lay open small
 made by assembly & things joined. Iron vase joined and soldered As small peddlers lay open small wares in order to
 commerce of letters, much rarer secrets from my benevolent readers. Aes ustum Once finely pulverized, it molds very neatly & has a
 a certain fatness that gives it bond, | more than crocum , & I believe that it would not be inappropriate
 believe that it would not be inappropriate for a cast. Rotten wood The one which is white, light like a sponge, once
 it would not be inappropriate for a cast. Rotten wood The one which is white, light like a sponge , once burned in a closed fire, can be used
 a closed fire, can be used for a frame for lead and molds very neatly. But such things do not endure
 during winter, & in summer one plants them well with earth . Bittern foot To mold it, it is better to
 leave through the gate, whatever blowing one does or whatever quicksilver one puts there, or a feather quill during molding to
 one does or whatever quicksilver one puts there, or a feather quill during molding to use as a gate. This is
 when it is most frangible, something does not break. The crust & ashes that it leaves & which adhere to the
 is most frangible, something does not break. The crust & ashes that it leaves & which adhere to the mold while
 mold, when you reheat, the animal which boils leaves some filth . And, on this occasion, one always marks the mold
 means it is neater. Perfumer They readily put half of amber & half of musk & very little civet, because amber
 Perfumer They readily put half of amber & half of musk & very little civet, because amber always overtakes the principal
 half of amber & half of musk & very little civet , because amber always overtakes the principal scent of musk.
 amber & half of musk & very little civet, because amber always overtakes the principal scent of musk. To spare the
 little civet, because amber always overtakes the principal scent of musk . To spare the amber, they readily put a little
 always overtakes the principal scent of musk. To spare the amber , they readily put a little musk in the white
 musk. To spare the amber, they readily put a little musk in the white layers, & pour l which gives a
 But to remove la or hide the blackness of the musk , they put in a bit of wheat starch from
 blackness of the musk, they put in a bit of wheat starch from England , which is perfectly white. When the amber To perfume
 wheat starch from England, which is perfectly white. When the amber To perfume with white amber in the Portuguese fashion, take
 which is perfectly white. When the amber To perfume with white amber in the Portuguese fashion, take a huchau of amber, well
 white amber in the Portuguese fashion, take a huchau of amber , well broken up. And having put in a small
 amber, well broken up. And having put in a small silver bowl a silver spoonful of flower oil, or lacking that,
 up. And having put in a small silver bowl a silver spoonful of flower oil, or lacking that, ben oil, that
 put in a small silver bowl a silver spoonful of flower oil , or lacking that, ben oil, that is to say,
 bowl a silver spoonful of flower oil, or lacking that, ben oil , that is to say, a silver spoon that one
 or lacking that, ben oil, that is to say, a silver spoon that one uses at the table, put in your
 spoon that one uses at the table, put in your ambergris & place all on a low fire, and it will
 a low fire, and it will melt quickly if your amber is good, & it will remain there without lumps. Once
 melted, put in the size of a pine nut of civet , & make it melt, & mix it well together.
 your finger very lightly on on the edge of the oil , spread it on the glove, little by little &
 it to dry. Next, trace again as before until the amber is all laid down. Eau-de-vie It is excellent for molding
 again as before until the amber is all laid down. Eau-de-vie It is excellent for molding neatly, such that in the
 in the place where you do not put any, the sand will usually attach to the figure. But it needs to
 three passes. And because it does not take easily on oiled things, I believe that it would be good to put
 that it would be good to put some amongst the water in which you temper your sand. Crayfish The hairy cornicles
 put some amongst the water in which you temper your sand . Crayfish The hairy cornicles that it has under its
 burnt, it is difficult to remove them & clean their ash , which, staying in the mold, it prevents the metal
 their ash, which, staying in the mold, it prevents the metal from running well therein, & for that reason, one makes
 & for that reason, one makes a small gate of wax thread at the tips of them, both to hold them
 both to hold them up and to blow out the ash that hinders. Spare no pins, placing them not only in
 according to the stance that you want to give it. Crocum That which is rusty by itself, being showered with salt
 Crocum That which is rusty by itself, being showered with salt water or vinegar or urine and then th dried out and
 is rusty by itself, being showered with salt water or vinegar or urine and then th dried out and reddened in
 by itself, being showered with salt water or vinegar or urine and then th dried out and reddened in fire, is
 out and reddened in fire, is very red ground on porphyry and is of the color of Levant bole, & approaching
 red ground on porphyry and is of the color of Levant bole , & approaching minium. But that which is showered with
 and is of the color of Levant bole, & approaching minium . But that which is showered with urine & dried
 bole, & approaching minium. But that which is showered with urine & dried out acquires a deeper tincture & approaches crushed
 urine & dried out acquires a deeper tincture & approaches crushed aes ustum or vermillion. But the first one, finely ground, acquires a
 acquires a deeper tincture & approaches crushed aes ustum or vermillion . But the first one, finely ground, acquires a bright
 finely ground, acquires a bright red color, in the like cinnabar , in eau-de-vie. And the ones and the others, prepared
 acquires a bright red color, in the like cinnabar, in eau-de-vie . And the ones and the others, prepared as said,
 if, being thus hot and fine, one throws on top vinegar , urine, or eau-de-vie. Urine gives much tincture, and eau-de-vie
 being thus hot and fine, one throws on top vinegar, urine , or eau-de-vie. Urine gives much tincture, and eau-de-vie also.
 hot and fine, one throws on top vinegar, urine, or eau-de-vie . Urine gives much tincture, and eau-de-vie also. Repairing It
 and fine, one throws on top vinegar, urine, or eau-de-vie. Urine gives much tincture, and eau-de-vie also. Repairing It is better
 top vinegar, urine, or eau-de-vie. Urine gives much tincture, and eau-de-vie also. Repairing It is better to repair little with the
 And while repairing, wet & rub with your very small hog bristle brushes. Gate When you make the gate of some delicate
 burin, or gently with a small file, & rub with willow charcoal & little brushes. Make continuous the lines disturbed by the
 little brushes. Make continuous the lines disturbed by the flashing. Leady silver It degrades a lot, because the lead which is mixed
 the flashing. Leady silver It degrades a lot, because the lead which is mixed in works it like in the cupel,
 balls at the edges of the crucible & on the charcoal which covers it. It is also fatty, and thus it
 also fatty, and thus it is good to melt all coined silver , like reals & others, & to put it in
 neat as the principal, such as a little viper of silver , and I made the alloy out of 4 reals,
 of silver, and I made the alloy out of 4 reals , of 20 sous from Spain, & a coin of
 I made the alloy out of 4 reals, of 20 sous from Spain , & a coin of xx sous from France. Blowing
 of 20 sous from Spain, & a coin of xx sous from France . Blowing When you melt silver & gold, do not
 coin of xx sous from France. Blowing When you melt silver & gold, do not blow strongly & with violence, because
 xx sous from France. Blowing When you melt silver & gold , do not blow strongly & with violence, because with
 do not blow strongly & with violence, because with the charcoal consolidating, the crucible would lower & the silv could fall
 ready, at that moment, blow strongly to heat well the silver or gold. Both, once melted, want to be blown from
 that moment, blow strongly to heat well the silver or gold . Both, once melted, want to be blown from above
 want to be blown from above with small bellows, especially gold , for this removes their fumes & softens them. Molds
 above with small bellows, especially gold, for this removes their fumes & softens them. Molds For those which in which one
 notched & scratched, in order that the weight of the metal does not go with much force. They make hardly any
 them, put between them and the press some pieces of plump & thick felt , which is hardly yet crushed, for it fills the
 should be placed before reheating or drying it. When the earth from which you make the earthen slab to arrange your
 drying it. When the earth from which you make the earthen slab to arrange your animal is too soft, the points
 out easily & come undone when you cast in the sand , & thus the mold spoils and the shape comes
 will be too tender & soft, spread on top some hot ashes & blow with the bellows. Sand If there is not
 with the bellows. Sand If there is not enough good feather alum or crocum, it will easily crack in the fire. But
 Sand If there is not enough good feather alum or crocum , it will easily crack in the fire. But if
 good when, being hot after the cast, it quickly imbibes water when one quenches it & rends breaks easily because the
 when one quenches it & rends breaks easily because the alum & the crocum render it spongy. On the contrary, bad
 it & rends breaks easily because the alum & the crocum render it spongy. On the contrary, bad sand, which is
 alum & the crocum render it spongy. On the contrary, bad sand , which is only of plaster & brick, & little
 spongy. On the contrary, bad sand, which is only of plaster & brick, & little mixed with alum, breaks easily in
 the contrary, bad sand, which is only of plaster & brick , & little mixed with alum, breaks easily in the
 is only of plaster & brick, & little mixed with alum , breaks easily in the fire & hardens in water.
 with alum, breaks easily in the fire & hardens in water . Cast, if possible, all in one go. Molds Even
 all in one go. Molds Even though you cast in lead , the molds want to be well dried, especially when
 & keep them in continuous heat until they no longer smoke from inside. Do not place them to reheat at different
 your cast there occurs some little hole, mend it with gummed modeling wax that is black or gray. Lake If, once it is
 it with gummed modeling wax that is black or gray. Lake If, once it is ground, you let it dry without
 is ground, you let it dry without keeping it in water , it will dry out & you will have as
 as much trouble grinding it as before. La Stretching a canvas picture If it is crumpled & creased from being rolled
 & you will stretch it very evenly without spoiling it. Plaster for molding When it is long to set & dry,
 is drawn from lean soil is the best. Molds of fatty plaster ought not to be kept for a long time, for
 be kept for a long time, for they act like fatty earth , which when drying by itself, cracks. It is best
 reheat them soon after they are made, & to cast. Good plaster keeps a long time in molds. It needs to be
 a long time in molds. It needs to be well oiled , for it is more difficult to separate the two
 two halves of the molds than when it is mixed. Dragon’s blood It can be imitated with lake, which surpasses the dragon's
 it is mixed. Dragon’s blood It can be imitated with lake , which surpasses the dragon's blood in beauty if, tempered
 which surpasses the dragon's blood in beauty if, tempered in oil , you glaze on gold or silver. Tempered in varnish,
 blood in beauty if, tempered in oil, you glaze on gold or silver. Tempered in varnish, it dies. Repairing snakes and
 beauty if, tempered in oil, you glaze on gold or silver . Tempered in varnish, it dies. Repairing snakes and lizards
 in oil, you glaze on gold or silver. Tempered in varnish , it dies. Repairing snakes and lizards You could well
 you can graft it on with small pieces points of iron or steel wire , & glue with fish glue, & then cover it
 with small pieces points of iron or steel wire, & glue with fish glue, & then cover it all with gray
 pieces points of iron or steel wire, & glue with fish glue , & then cover it all with gray or black
 glue, & then cover it all with gray or black wax . But it is necessary to let the glue dry
 or black wax. But it is necessary to let the glue dry for one day without touching it. Stance of animals
 day without touching it. Stance of animals Not only with iron points but with melted wax, animals are secured on the
 Stance of animals Not only with iron points but with melted wax , animals are secured on the earthen slab. Wash them
 points but with melted wax, animals are secured on the earthen slab. Wash them first in clear water, once they have
 are secured on the earthen slab. Wash them first in clear water , once they have died in the mixture of vinegar
 clear water, once they have died in the mixture of vinegar & urine, & with a sponge purge their mouth, eyes,
 once they have died in the mixture of vinegar & urine , & with a sponge purge their mouth, eyes, and
 a sponge purge their mouth, eyes, and head of the slaver which comes out, for the sand would never set well
 and head of the slaver which comes out, for the sand would never set well there and would become lumpy. If
 for molding again, put them back into the mixture of urine , vinegar & eau-de-vie where you killed the others, and
 molding again, put them back into the mixture of urine, vinegar & eau-de-vie where you killed the others, and they will
 put them back into the mixture of urine, vinegar & eau-de-vie where you killed the others, and they will keep for
 corrupting. When they are reheated, the thing comes out better. Lute When reheating, you can use common lute. But when you
 thing comes out better. Lute When reheating, you can use common lute . But when you want to cast, strip the mold
 mold of it & promptly, with a brush, layer the lute of plaster that has been used for molds , for it will be dry when it is placed,
 is placed, & cast. One needs to mainly put this lute on the joints. Silver When it quivers once melted, it
 One needs to mainly put this lute on the joints. Silver When it quivers once melted, it is a sign that
 that it is quite hot, & because usually it is leady , it is good to throw in it some lime
 is leady, it is good to throw in it some lime mortar , for this attracts & gathers the lead. Fly wings
 it some lime mortar, for this attracts & gathers the lead . Fly wings In order that they come out better,
 put from the gate to the edges of these some veins of wax . Make sure also that under the belly there is
 Make sure also that under the belly there is enough wax , for this is what makes the gate. Joining some
 Joining some fly wings, or similar They are joined with fish glue mixed with eau-de-vie over slow fire, heating also the work.
 or similar They are joined with fish glue mixed with eau-de-vie over slow fire, heating also the work. Then, this is
 fire, heating also the work. Then, this is covered with modeling wax , which is grey. For the workshop If something is
 a humid place or the gutter of some roof. Scented candle from Le Mans Among the wax & candle they melt
 of some roof. Scented candle from Le Mans Among the wax & candle they melt rosin that in France is called
 roof. Scented candle from Le Mans Among the wax & candle they melt rosin that in France is called of Burgundy,
 from Le Mans Among the wax & candle they melt rosin that in France is called of Burgundy, which is white
 white & not as brittle & dry as the other rosin . They also perfume the tip and the wick. Softening
 rosin. They also perfume the tip and the wick. Softening gold Dissolve caput mortuum in distilled vinegar, filter & congeal in
 also perfume the tip and the wick. Softening gold Dissolve caput mortuum in distilled vinegar, filter & congeal in salt, & cement
 tip and the wick. Softening gold Dissolve caput mortuum in distilled vinegar , filter & congeal in salt, & cement ☉ with
 Dissolve caput mortuum in distilled vinegar, filter & congeal in salt , & cement ☉ with this, and it softens it
 in distilled vinegar, filter & congeal in salt, & cement ☉ with this, and it softens it marvellously. Augmenting the color
 this, and it softens it marvellously. Augmenting the color of gold Put aquafortis of vitriol on hot ashes. Cover the bottle,
 it softens it marvellously. Augmenting the color of gold Put aquafortis of vitriol on hot ashes. Cover the bottle, that is to say,
 Augmenting the color of gold Put aquafortis of vitriol on hot ashes . Cover the bottle, that is to say, the mouth,
 unstop it & thick fumes will come out; put the gold on this and it will take on a high color.
 color. Petards Petards are made of the best alloy of metal & fine rosette that one can, in order that they
 Petards are made of the best alloy of metal & fine rosette that one can, in order that they do not burst,
 order that they do not burst, namely one part of metal & two of fine rosette or old cauldron, which is
 not burst, namely one part of metal & two of fine rosette or old cauldron, which is even better. Some are of
 one part of metal & two of fine rosette or old cauldron , which is even better. Some are of fifteen or
 ch are loaded with two & a half lb of good grain powder , & they are for applying on windows & common
 to 27 lb and are loaded with 4 lb of powder . Others weigh 45 lb & are loaded with eight
 weigh 45 lb & are loaded with eight lb of powder . And thus they are formed according to the effort
 give force to the breech, because of the quantity of powder they hold, & so that they do not burst. At
 sit loaded for some time. After one has put the powder in, one tamps it down quite thoroughly, and then one
 tamps it down quite thoroughly, and then one puts in pressed paper , then a cake of wax well tamped down, &
 thoroughly, and then one puts in pressed paper, then a cake of wax well tamped down, & on the wax another plate of
 a cake of wax well tamped down, & on the wax another plate of cork that goes in quite precisely &
 of wax well tamped down, & on the wax another plate of cork that goes in quite precisely & with force. In this
 in quite precisely & with force. In this way, the powder remains well sealed & gives much greater violence, & if
 violence, & if you wish, you can put on the plate of cork one of wood pierced in the middle, if the petard
 you can put on the plate of cork one of wood pierced in the middle, if the petard is pierced at
 cover the button, which is quite evenly filed, p with waxed canvas , or add wax to it in order that it
 is quite evenly filed, p with waxed canvas, or add wax to it in order that it precisely plugs the hole
 breech. But because the doors are sometimes iron-clad & the iron pegs cannot pierce it, one uses an iron fork made
 & the iron pegs cannot pierce it, one uses an iron fork made like pincers & another iron rod q made
 one uses an iron fork made like pincers & another iron rod q made with three claws at the end, as
 the petard holds itself well & is quickly placed. The iron pegs must extend from the petard with the entire point
 the petards are placed, one fills the touch-hole with good pulverin and s one puts in it a feather quill filled
 with good pulverin and s one puts in it a feather quill filled with powder tightly pressed & moistened with vinegar, or,
 s one puts in it a feather quill filled with powder tightly pressed & moistened with vinegar, or, if needed, one
 feather quill filled with powder tightly pressed & moistened with vinegar , or, if needed, one presses the powder in the
 & moistened with vinegar, or, if needed, one presses the powder in the hollow of the hand & having wetted it
 the hollow of the hand & having wetted it with saliva , one makes from it something like a cocoon or
 lb, but then one only puts in three lb of powder . It must certainly be a strong door if the
 30 lb pierced at the breech, through which a large iron peg passes, button-like on one end & made like a
 a door that does not have is not covered with iron plates . D. These are plates of wax, cork & wood
 have is not covered with iron plates. D. These are plates of wax, cork & wood for loading the petard & sealing the powder well. E.
 cork & wood for loading the petard & sealing the powder well. E. This Iron fork made in the form of
 loading the petard & sealing the powder well. E. This Iron fork made in the form of pincers of the height
 place the mortar without a peg. It must be of soft iron in order that its branches bend easily, if need be,
 height or width of the door. F. This is another iron fork of the same height that props up the fork
 saws to cut a portcullis, if needed. I. The large iron pegs which traverse & attach the petard. K. These are
 which traverse & attach the petard. K. These are common iron pegs, very round & covered with canvas, like all the
 These are common iron pegs, very round & covered with canvas , like all the rest, to turn the large iron
 with canvas, like all the rest, to turn the large iron pegs pierced close to the head. L. Axes that one
 petard has left anything whole. M. A large mallet of wood for knocking down what was begun & weakened by the
 & to prevent the portcullis from falling. P. Are small iron pincers for putting some petard low on the straight part
 their support Molding a bouquet Rose carnations Molding hollow Hollow gilded silver Molding crab - put + Crayfish put and seen Grasshoppers
 + Crayfish put and seen Grasshoppers Barbels Butterflies Flies Bats Enameling very thin gold Molding in sugar Molding fish Casting in
 and seen Grasshoppers Barbels Butterflies Flies Bats Enameling very thin gold Molding in sugar Molding fish Casting in sulfur - put
 Barbels Butterflies Flies Bats Enameling very thin gold Molding in sugar Molding fish Casting in sulfur - put Carton + P
 very thin gold Molding in sugar Molding fish Casting in sulfur - put Carton + P Wax put Modeling Stamped medals
 Molding in sugar Molding fish Casting in sulfur - put Carton + P Wax put Modeling Stamped medals full of lead
 Molding fish Casting in sulfur - put Carton + P Wax put Modeling Stamped medals full of lead Molding large pieces
 Carton + P Wax put Modeling Stamped medals full of lead Molding large pieces carved in wood Molding and making hollow
 Stamped medals full of lead Molding large pieces carved in wood Molding and making hollow forms of animals from metal +
 in wood Molding and making hollow forms of animals from metal + Wheat oil put and seen Stag beetle Foot of
 Molding and making hollow forms of animals from metal + Wheat oil put and seen Stag beetle Foot of a bittern molded
 beetle Foot of a bittern molded Thickness of a medal Very hard wax Molding a pring and that which is engraved Molding pieces
 Fountains Grottos Diverse mosses applied Molding in three frames Softening iron to engrave it Etching with aquafortis on silver and copper
 in three frames Softening iron to engrave it Etching with aquafortis on silver and copper Stamping White enamel, making it tender
 frames Softening iron to engrave it Etching with aquafortis on silver and copper Stamping White enamel, making it tender with calcined
 iron to engrave it Etching with aquafortis on silver and copper Stamping White enamel, making it tender with calcined black river
 engrave it Etching with aquafortis on silver and copper Stamping White enamel , making it tender with calcined black river pebbles Molding
 silver and copper Stamping White enamel, making it tender with calcined black river pebbles Molding very thin like bimbalotiers do They mold in paper
 pebbles Molding very thin like bimbalotiers do They mold in paper & carton, for neither earth, sand, nor metal would mold
 very thin like bimbalotiers do They mold in paper & carton , for neither earth, sand, nor metal would mold as
 bimbalotiers do They mold in paper & carton, for neither earth , sand, nor metal would mold as neatly & would
 do They mold in paper & carton, for neither earth, sand , nor metal would mold as neatly & would not
 mold in paper & carton, for neither earth, sand, nor metal would mold as neatly & would not receive. Or else
 neatly & would not receive. Or else they engrave in stone from Istre the principal side, & the reverse is of paper or
 from Istre the principal side, & the reverse is of paper or carton. Reducing a round figure to a hollow form
 the principal side, & the reverse is of paper or carton . Reducing a round figure to a hollow form You
 hollow form You need to first mold it with some plaster , as said before, & in the plaster cast in
 it with some plaster, as said before, & in the plaster cast in wax, from which will come out a relief
 plaster, as said before, & in the plaster cast in wax , from which will come out a relief that you
 you fancy. And then you will model this relief of wax again in plaster, or better yet, with your wetted sand
 then you will model this relief of wax again in plaster , or better yet, with your wetted sand # like
 of wax again in plaster, or better yet, with your wetted sand # like for noyau , & in the latter, cast in some lead, &
 like for noyau, & in the latter, cast in some lead , & from this you will have a very neat
 neat relief, & if it is not, repair on the cement or otherwise, & take heed that it is always of
 please, in this way. Place half of your figure of lead , oiled & wetted with eau-de-vie according to the above,
 in this way. Place half of your figure of lead, oiled & wetted with eau-de-vie according to the above, in the
 half of your figure of lead, oiled & wetted with eau-de-vie according to the above, in the clay slab, then mold
 & wetted with eau-de-vie according to the above, in the clay slab, then mold this half with some white plaster. Having
 in the clay slab, then mold this half with some white plaster . Having set next and having well smoothed & flattened
 Having set next and having well smoothed & flattened the plaster , take your black wax mixed with sulfur, as is
 and having well smoothed & flattened the plaster, take your black wax mixed with sulfur , as is said, because it leaves nothing in the
 nothing in the mold & melts quicker. Wet it in warm urine , & once softened enough, make an imprint with it
 make an imprint with it on the half of the lead figure, and it you will have a very neat hollow
 have a very neat hollow form. Shape next the hollow wax form in a square shape, as you please, with sufficient
 well on all sides, & thus next, mold this hollowed wax , imprinted on one part & flat & smooth on
 in the same fashion that you mold flat medals of wax or other metal en noyau. And the mold en noyau
 fashion that you mold flat medals of wax or other metal en noyau. And the mold en noyau will render in
 en noyau. And the mold en noyau will render in silver or such metal as pleases you the m a similar
 the mold en noyau will render in silver or such metal as pleases you the m a similar figure to the
 as pleases you the m a similar figure to the wax , that is to say flat & smooth on one
 put this hollow form to be whitened, if it is silver , you will be able to mix there some works
 you will be able to mix there some works of sugar , # having made a hole in your clay slab
 works of sugar, # having made a hole in your clay slab & having en packed in it half of the
 having en packed in it half of the figure of wax , a little oiled, to pull it out better. Transparent
 in it half of the figure of wax, a little oiled , to pull it out better. Transparent wax is not
 of wax, a little oiled, to pull it out better. Transparent wax is not good, but rather the one which has body,
 to make an imprint well. As you have molded with plaster & wax one half, you can mold the other the
 an imprint well. As you have molded with plaster & wax one half, you can mold the other the same. perfume
 wax one half, you can mold the other the same. perfume & suchlike. But take heed that it is necessary that
 suchlike. But take heed that it is necessary that the black wax with which you mold be hard, in order that, quickly
 rendered harder by adding into the already melted one more melted sulfur & a little rosin. Currency medals One makes the relief
 the already melted one more melted sulfur & a little rosin . Currency medals One makes the relief puncheons of untempered
 little rosin. Currency medals One makes the relief puncheons of untempered steel , then one tempers them, & with these one strikes
 matrices, not reddened in fire, as some think, but on steeled iron , reheated & softened, which one quenches afterward. Casting Do
 not cast in one go, for in doing so, the metal is regurgitated & in, & the metal gets cold before
 doing so, the metal is regurgitated & in, & the metal gets cold before it goes down. But cast bit by
 of noyau, in being reheated, want to be set on charcoals a little spent, without the air touching them, like the
 recu dried in the open & uncovered. Thick works of tin They do not want to be cast in lead or
 of tin They do not want to be cast in lead or red tin like thin & delicate things. It is
 They do not want to be cast in lead or red tin like thin & delicate things. It is enough if it
 hot. Thin things want to be quite hot & of red tin . Cleaning closed molds One needs to let them cool
 inside to clean them, for when hot, they retain the ash . When cold, they are cleaned better. Take a thin
 the ash. When cold, they are cleaned better. Take a thin wire of latten or a delicate straw to clean the tail completely, for
 cleaned better. Take a thin wire of latten or a delicate straw to clean the tail completely, for this is what makes
 drawing it to you. Before molding, thicken the tail with wax , then cut it, & join & solder a tail
 the tail with wax, then cut it, & join & solder a tail of latten wire with solder. The lumps on
 then cut it, & join & solder a tail of latten wire with solder. The lumps on a flower are a small
 & join & solder a tail of latten wire with solder . The lumps on a flower are a small matter,
 chaple, but let the leaves come out well, then the paint covers everything. Original first page (1578–1579) In the year fifteen
 fever or poison or plague, an écu’s weight of your opiate soaked in scabious or bugloss water or thoroughly tempered wine,
 or plague, an écu’s weight of your opiate soaked in scabious or bugloss water or thoroughly tempered wine, if one is afflicted. After taking
 of your opiate soaked in scabious or bugloss water or thoroughly tempered wine , if one is afflicted. After taking it, one needs
 oneself sweat. Othonis episcopi Frisigensis Ab orbe condito For preserving Acetum paratum ex ruta baccis juniperi simul tusis. Eo aceto extinguantur
 episcopi Frisigensis Ab orbe condito For preserving Acetum paratum ex ruta baccis juniperi simul tusis. Eo aceto extinguantur lateres igniti et
 Frisigensis Ab orbe condito For preserving Acetum paratum ex ruta baccis juniperi simul tusis. Eo aceto extinguantur lateres igniti et vapor excipiatur
 preserving Acetum paratum ex ruta baccis juniperi simul tusis. Eo aceto extinguantur lateres igniti et vapor excipiatur ore & naribus. This
 a place where you do not have this preparation, carry rue & seeds pestled together, then, according to your need, boil
 where you do not have this preparation, carry rue & seeds pestled together, then, according to your need, boil them in
 pestled together, then, according to your need, boil them in vinegar and use as above. Abbatis Urspergensis Chronicon Hyeronimus Mercurialis, Variarum
