Rue de la Heaumerie, at the sign of St Claude: List of names Mestre Nicolas Costé, in the Rue de la Heaumerie, at the sign of St Claude / Mirrors. Mestre Jehan Cousin, who resides in the Faubourg
Faubourg Saint-Germain: Claude / Mirrors. Mestre Jehan Cousin, who resides in the Faubourg Saint-Germain , knows of the master. Mestre Jehan Garnier, in the
Rue des Escrivains: Saint-Germain, knows of the master. Mestre Jehan Garnier, in the Rue des Escrivains by St Jacques de la Boucherie, currier. Try pastel woad
St Jacques de la Boucherie: master. Mestre Jehan Garnier, in the Rue des Escrivains by St Jacques de la Boucherie , currier. Try pastel woad flowers. List The harvester that
Eleusinae: The harvester that leaves some ears is not blamed. Sacra Eleusinae deae propalare nefas. Trumpets, see the book of funerals. List
Ingolstadiensis: List of books and authors Vuolfangus Lazius Petrus Appianus, mathematicus Ingolstadiensis , Comment. urb. rom. Hieronimo Ruscelli Hermolaus Barbarus Angelius Bargaeus,
urb. rom.: books and authors Vuolfangus Lazius Petrus Appianus, mathematicus Ingolstadiensis, Comment. urb. rom. Hieronimo Ruscelli Hermolaus Barbarus Angelius Bargaeus, De aucupio et venatione
italie:            monsieur - Cathalogue des villes Calendrier des bergiers Grammaire italie ne Arithmetique of Savonne Instruction pour le faict des finances
Lyon: ænigmatiques Des præceptes d’agriculture + Le secret des finances à Lyon Synesius Olaus Magnus + Mestre Bernard Palissi, inventor of rustic
Alexandria: Statius Thebaidos Servius, in Aeneidem Macrobius Aulus Gellius Alexander ab Alexandria Festus Nonius Magius, Miscellanea Pollux, Onomasticon Higinus Berosus Suetonius Valerius
Romae: List of books Aquatilium animalium historiae, Hypolito Salviano Typhernate authore, Romae 1554 Les Annales de Normandie For loosening the belly Prunes
Normandie: historiae, Hypolito Salviano Typhernate authore, Romae 1554 Les Annales de Normandie For loosening the belly Prunes of Saint Antonin, & if
Saint Antonin: Les Annales de Normandie For loosening the belly Prunes of Saint Antonin , & if you like you want put among them
Brescia: of books Practica, cioè nova inventione di contegiare, stampata in Brescia per Vincenzo Sabio. Emeralds of Brissac I have taken minium,
Brissac: di contegiare, stampata in Brescia per Vincenzo Sabio. Emeralds of Brissac I have taken minium, 26 ℥, crystal and ground on
Venice: with walnut oil, and if you add in a little Venice laque platte, the color will be more vivid, and stir
Venice: colors of enamels. Varnish for panels Take a lb of Venice turpentine & heat it in a pot until it simmers,
Venice: polished them with the arene you can soften them with Venice tripoli, which should not be sandy, & next with putty.
armeni: horsetail, to render it well polished. Next take fine boli armeni & sanguine, as much of one as of the other,
Venice: lay in rouge clair & glaze with it de, grind Venice laque platte on marble with walnut or linseed oil. Once
Gascony: after that. But above all the grain called pomole in Gascony or baillard in France, makes the earth shake seven years
France: all the grain called pomole in Gascony or baillard in France , makes the earth shake seven years later, according to
Lyon: joiner's plane. Stil de grain yellow It is made in Lyon from the juice of weld & chalk mixed together or
Germany: loses some of its tint. Those who make it in Germany compound it like enamel, in large pieces which they pestle,
Albi: is greyer, and the the one from the region of Albi is whiter. It must be cooked with a closed fire,
Armenian: powder. Molding stucco promptly Grind & pulverize finely brick or Armenian bole or sanguine & incorporate it with melted wax, &
Montauban: Otherwise, if it is all of cotton, as those of Montauban make, it is necessary to snuff it out often, for
Montpellier: long. It is true that this is a pan of Montpellier & not a King’s pan, which is not used in
Montpellier: of cannons for making them good. For the pan of Montpellier being of shorter, the cannons more proportioned there are shorter
Montpellier: lb & fine rosette xv or xvi. The pan of Montpellier is equivalent to six of the King’s inches, which contains
France: same for the others. # The composition of cannons of France is of one quintal of metal for two of rosette.
Toulouse: quintal of metal for two of rosette. But those of Toulouse & Poncet puts iii of rosette & one of metal.
La Rochelle: these xxvii or xxviii pans long, like the Cow of La Rochelle . But to such pieces one gives reinforcement at the
Lorraine: it is cooked. It should be hard. Glassworker Glass from Lorraine is smoother & more even than plate glass and it
Lorraine: & other drugs that the glassworkers put on. Glass from Lorraine is sold by the bundle & each bundle is composed
France: usually x sous. Plate glass is sold in made in France , it is whiter & clearer, but alternately it is
Lorraine: but alternately it is not so durable as that from Lorraine . It is also commonly blown & in that case,
Rodez: soap on the burn. Experimented. Common saying Bell tower of Rodez , church of Albi, bells of Mende. However, one holds
Albi: burn. Experimented. Common saying Bell tower of Rodez, church of Albi , bells of Mende. However, one holds the bell of
Mende: saying Bell tower of Rodez, church of Albi, bells of Mende . However, one holds the bell of Toulouse named Cardaillac
Toulouse: Albi, bells of Mende. However, one holds the bell of Toulouse named Cardaillac as one of the most beautiful in France,
France: Toulouse named Cardaillac as one of the most beautiful in France , all the more since it weighs two hundred and
France: convenient place to mount the battery Know the magazines of France for the artillery. It is good if the platform is
Montpellier: long 2 quintals, is one cane long, which is 8 Montpellier pans 1 quintal, is six pans and a half 1
England: similar jumble to cheat on the weight. The tin from England is so hard that the miners put in lead to
Germany: to soften it. The one that comes by way of Germany is softer. Commonly, the sworn master pewterers, from bonnes villes,
bonnes villes: of Germany is softer. Commonly, the sworn master pewterers, from bonnes villes , add six lb of fine lead on or eight
Rome: & all colors. One makes ceiling ornaments with it in Rome . One can make bed ornaments with it. If you
Germany: fire. Lead The best, fattest & softest is brought from Germany and is not in saulmon, but in lattes of around
Lyon: arm's length & three fingers' width. It is transported to Lyon , and from this, the leaf is made for small
Nuremberg: from this, the leaf is made for small mirrors in Nuremberg . Pewterer They also make their molds from metal which
Flanders: the aforesaid things through a filter. Varnish resistant to water Flanders varnish, made with turpentine & oil of turpentine or mastic,
Milan: very evenly beaten & driven with the hammer. Morions from Milan are all in one piece & thus better than those
Flemish: soon as the colors of panels are well dried, the Flemish varnish them so they do not die any more than
Toulouse: seat. Mat maker They make two kinds of them in Toulouse , one to hang on the partition walls of rooms,
German: which one needs to reheat. Nonetheless, try the red from German , which is rouge d’escaille. They make their common red
Germany: melts, that is why solder is made with it. In Germany they make very light candlesticks, it is because they turn
Lorraine: take it with pincers. Glassworkers’ glass One says that in Lorraine & in Flanders well-made glass is made of fern ashes
Flanders: pincers. Glassworkers’ glass One says that in Lorraine & in Flanders well-made glass is made of fern ashes & pebbles, and
England: annealing furnace. It is made in the same way in England more beautifully. Near Rouen in France, plate glass is made
Rouen: made in the same way in England more beautifully. Near Rouen in France, plate glass is made with some salt of
France: the same way in England more beautifully. Near Rouen in France , plate glass is made with some salt of saltwort
Lorraine: pebbles, that is whiter & more delicate than that of Lorraine . For plate glass can be melted with a candle
Lorraine: can be melted with a candle & not that from Lorraine . That of plate is blown in a long bubble,
Englishman: one passes a certain pulverized salt over it, which an Englishman called desramonet. But I suppose that this was pulverized pumice
Bretagne: taut cord, he polished his amber, then passed tripoli from Bretagne on it with the finger, others with a piece of
Saint Denis: of Charlemagne, as it is called, in the treasure of Saint Denis , in which the gemstones are mounted without leaf, so
Brittany: soft wood dipped into water & dusted with tripoli of Brittany , and it takes a beautiful polish. If it is
English: of emery, & jet also. The salt called by the English de armonic is a mineral salt that resembles marble stone
Cardona: a very hard mineral with large pieces, like that of Cardona & Monserrat. I have experimented by making it boil in
Monserrat: hard mineral with large pieces, like that of Cardona & Monserrat . I have experimented by making it boil in lye
Lauragais: cause. Try for enamel. Pastel woad It is grown in Lauragais where the depth of the earth is so fertile that
Lauragais: The first ones are better. The best pastel woad of Lauragais is the one from Carmail & the one from Auragne.
Carmail: The best pastel woad of Lauragais is the one from Carmail & the one from Auragne. And sometimes the pastel woad
Auragne: Lauragais is the one from Carmail & the one from Auragne . And sometimes the pastel woad is good in one
Cardona: the mineral salt, which resembles marble & which one calls Cardona salt in Catalonia & at the border of Spain, thr
Catalonia: which resembles marble & which one calls Cardona salt in Catalonia & at the border of Spain, thr & throwing it
Spain: calls Cardona salt in Catalonia & at the border of Spain , thr & throwing it in the all red or
Malta: oil. Next one affixes it. Cross of the commanders of Malta This beautiful rouge clair which makes the field of the
Indian: fine tear of dragon’s blood tempered with eau-de-vie or else Indian laque platte, which in my opinion is made in Flanders,
Flanders: Indian laque platte, which in my opinion is made in Flanders , tempered with clear turpentine & tear of mastic &
England: always leaving each layer to dry. Next, with minium from England ground on marble, or burnt lead, grind av & temper
England: on the medal, then varnish. Once dry, grate minium from England on top with a paintbrush or a finger. The said
Paris: half, two inches & a few lines, which is the Paris aulne. The medium hackbut, which is the usual one &
Coustance: in light soils. white Horsehair sieves They are made at Coustance in Normandy with horse tail hair which they clean with
Normandy: soils. white Horsehair sieves They are made at Coustance in Normandy with horse tail hair which they clean with lye because
Toulouse: dozen & each dozen xxx sous. They bring them to Toulouse to transport them afterward to Spain, and take silk tammy
Spain: They bring them to Toulouse to transport them afterward to Spain , and take silk tammy in exchange for it .
Bayonne: picked at the waning of the moon. Crucibles Those from Bayonne , which seem to be made of grès are better,
Montpellier: lb black soap, and half a lb of tartar from Montpellier . Once the whole is pulverized, one needs to boil
Germany: iron workers commonly use is not refined like that from Germany or Biscay, which is reduced in hardness p in the
Biscay: commonly use is not refined like that from Germany or Biscay , which is reduced in hardness p in the bath
Foix: which are transported in flat ingots from the forges of Foix & elsewhere, there is a harder & whiter & finer
Germany: is not as excellent as purified steel like that from Germany & Biscaye, which is sold in small beads. Some curry
Biscaye: as excellent as purified steel like that from Germany & Biscaye , which is sold in small beads. Some curry steel,
Germans: which with another heating they reduce to a mass. The Germans make their files from strong iron. One applies steel to
Levantines: in this part, they must be of very soft iron. Levantines refine our steel because their country does not provide them
Algiers: rollers must not be too loose. The work done in Algiers Take a colt of three or 4 years & feed
Spain: straw pig cut in the manner one feeds horses in Spain , and water it with good fountain or river water.
Algiers: dung, & the climate here is cooler than that of Algiers . Keep it in a warm & close place &
Champaigne: but the softer it is the better. The one from Champaigne fetches the price that is set in Lyon. Burnt &
Lyon: one from Champaigne fetches the price that is set in Lyon . Burnt & calcined horse bones mold very neatly. I
Languedoc: is sold by the ounce, which is commonly sold in Languedoc iii lb v s. The one from Spain that merchants
Spain: sold in Languedoc iii lb v s. The one from Spain that merchants bring there is considered the best because the
Spain: not so subject to illnesses & make more silk. In Spain , from one ounce of silk seed, worms are produced
France: But the ounce from one ounce of seed produced in France , only x or xii come out of it. Three
Albensis: one prepares for them en & attaches See Hieronymus Vida Albensis episcopus, de b Cremonensis, scripsit carmine de bombicum natura. How
Cremonensis: en & attaches See Hieronymus Vida Albensis episcopus, de b Cremonensis , scripsit carmine de bombicum natura. How one moves them
Ghent: can make marble with distemper of lake or rose of Ghent & chalk. Once dry, glaze with lake tempered in wine,
Venice: be thus. The varnish is made thus, mix with clear Venice turpentine some spike lavender oil & until all is clear
Ghent: made long ago. Painter The lake & florey rosette of Ghent & others lose their color & die in the air.
Italians: work would run & would soon be all disfigured. The Italians soften by hatching with a large flattened paintbrush which makes
Flemish: do not lay their shadow all at once like the Flemish , but make them hatching lightest toward the light then
Florence: lake moistened with saliva is promptly rendered dark. That from Florence is too gummed. If you make a layer of printers’
Venice: This strengthens it, otherwise they turn limp in wet weather. Venice masks are made with the hollow & the male face
Flemish: with the hollow & the male face of copper. The Flemish do not use any whites for flesh colors in oil
Florence: five or six months, but lead white does not change. Florence lake is better than that from Flanders for in Florence
Flanders: does not change. Florence lake is better than that from Flanders for in Florence the best dyes are made. To make
Florence: Florence lake is better than that from Flanders for in Florence the best dyes are made. To make a beautiful flesh
Florence: That is why ladies, wanting to color their cheeks, grind Florence lake very finely, then fill a little cotton with it,
Cambray: it, which they next wrap in a little fabric of Cambray which is clear. And thus they pounce the lake on
Flanders: very beautiful. Test palma christi seed oil. Walnut oil in Flanders costs at least a hundred sous a pint. The azure
Turkey: from porcupine quills, by others from wood of arrows from Turkey with whom with which they also make small rods to
Acre: strokes of the point. Not only ash & azur d’ Acre but mainly azur d’esmail which one needs to choose to
Italians: the last ones very dark to give relief well. The Italians commonly make three shadows, the first one, of light, very
Flemish: white is not too thick for it would break easily. Flemish painters have such panels made by the dozen. Neat work
Flemish: of bistre, then a coat of varnish. Work of the Flemish They do all their works in oil with the tip
Florence: make it look like a face of death. The beautiful Florence lake makes a beautiful re vivid flesh color approaching the
Germans: & it will not hinder your vision. Frames of the Germans Germans who work in miniature make frames not of glass,
Germans: it will not hinder your vision. Frames of the Germans Germans who work in miniature make frames not of glass, but
Germans: dries out neither too soon nor too late. Casting The Germans use lead from Flanders because it is very soft. And
Flanders: soon nor too late. Casting The Germans use lead from Flanders because it is very soft. And to cast better they
German: filth. In the second, they en make the cast. Shadows German painters make their shadows on flesh color of men with
Flanders: the best has its body with ceruse & brazilwood dye. Flanders blue In the month of May, one puts the cow
Flemish: in order that it does not crack. Double layers The Flemish & those who paint panels by the dozen only make
Flanders: cotton in order that no protrusions remain, then varnish with Flanders varnish, which you make mixed with a little eau-de-vie, to
Flanders: you clean it, for an ounce is still gold. In Flanders , women make gild. It is more beautiful when it
France: more beautiful when it is a little thick, but in France they beat it too delicately. Breathe on the gold color,
Flemish: the other side of this folio this mark: * The Flemish give a layer of distemper glue on the molding, then
Venice: continue 4 or 5 days. Next, make a plaster with Venice turpentine or better, common turpentine. Mix in sumac, blackthorn sloes,
Germans: you will melt everything you like. Varnish on paper The Germans make boxes p covered with painted paper & varnish it
Champagne: be of the softest kind you can find, like the Champagne one that painters use. It releases very neatly, does not
bolvenes: lumps like stones of tuf et ne, or among terres bolvenes , which are much better than those in fatty &
Toulouse: is moistened with wine or magistra &c / Verte The Toulouse molder reheats it strongly then grinds it finely on marble
English: color, then one varnishes it. Mulled and sugared wine The English , when they feel a cold coming on, mull wine
English: hot as they can to overcome a cold. The common English put sugar in wine to affect for themselves the sweet
Irish: itself disposed for doing an even greater labor. Eau-de-vie The Irish do not drink any wine because they convert it into
England: it is fatty. Sheep fat In a certain region of England , the sheep that graze there have very yellow fat
Ireland: and are nevertheless just as good as others. Spider In Ireland , there are none, & if one touches them with
England: there, they die. This is why some rich people of England make their ceilings from this wood, & by this method,
Toulouse: lead. It is commonly slate-colored. One frequently brings them to Toulouse from around Carcassonne . Printer’s letters Those who make them,
Carcassonne: commonly slate-colored. One frequently brings them to Toulouse from around Carcassonne . Printer’s letters Those who make them, mix into the
Germans: one does not see the light between the joints. The Germans cast their leads very thinly, because it seems they come
Flanders: blue varnish Take the blue of flowers florey or of Flanders & quicklime, and put around four fingers of water over
Partenay: it is powder. For coating it Take some glue of Partenay or parchment and apply it with the white of one
Venice: Another recipe for making varnish Take one ounce of verinse Venice turpentine & one quarter ounce of oil of perolle petrolle
orientals: overnight. Excellent secret. Try a lead mask. Medicine of the orientals against all maladies Dry rosemary in the month of May,
Venice: makes a large breach. Very hard white stucco White wax, Venice turpentine, eggshell, & ceruse. Fountains If you wish to make
Puy David: can find an excellent one on the little hill of Puy David near Thoulouse for lead, tin & copper. It does not
Thoulouse: excellent one on the little hill of Puy David near Thoulouse for lead, tin & copper. It does not want to
Fosseret: be over a closed fire. One finds this earth at Fosseret & in another place called Ox. Plaster It is necessary
Ox: finds this earth at Fosseret & in another place called Ox . Plaster It is necessary that it be well cooked,
Florence: coat of glue. Carton One ought to take paper from Florence , which is the finest, & pestle it & soak
Thoulouse: keeps for the whole year. Sand from a mine in Thoulouse The sand from Thoulouse, which is taken, from the depths
Thoulouse: year. Sand from a mine in Thoulouse The sand from Thoulouse , which is taken, from the depths of the earth,
Puy David: the depths of the earth, from the small hill of Puy David , is excellent in itself, but to make it withstand
Flemish: oil them & keep them under the dung. Glue The Flemish reglue their earthen pots with gold color, that is to
Thoulouse: burnt felt. Experimented sands I have experimented with sand from Thoulouse , & after reheating it well twice, in a skillet,
Thoulouse: fine casting sand, if they can find any. Sand from Thoulouse The usual bo good one is the one which is
Puy David: is the one which is found in a vineyard near Puy David , but the one which is most excellent is the
Touch: which is most excellent is the one is from the Touch , near Sainct Michel & toward Blagnac, in a vineyard
Sainct Michel: most excellent is the one is from the Touch, near Sainct Michel & toward Blagnac, in a vineyard that is quite high
Blagnac: one is from the Touch, near Sainct Michel & toward Blagnac , in a vineyard that is quite high up. The
Thoulouse: year long in a barrel. Sand of the mine of Thoulouse Casting sand coming from the mine, once passed through a
Cominge: the mine, mixed with sal ammoniac There is found in Cominge , near the town of Aurignac, a sand white mai
Aurignac: ammoniac There is found in Cominge, near the town of Aurignac , a sand white mai like salt and lean, that
Foix: the napkin, & it releases very neatly. Sand Molders from Foix who cast theireu medals crosswise, use crocum ferri and calcined
bonnes villes: cannot be found in in the surroundings of all the bonnes villes where artisans willingly gather. And thus, if they do not
Lyon: they prefer to have it come from afar, like from Lyon , Venice, Paris near the Sainct Chappelle & similar places,
Venice: prefer to have it come from afar, like from Lyon, Venice , Paris near the Sainct Chappelle & similar places, rather
Paris near the Sainct Chappelle: to have it come from afar, like from Lyon, Venice, Paris near the Sainct Chappelle & similar places, rather than prepare it. However, you can
Italy: u all sands to withstand several casts. Orange trees In Italy , those who are in the colder regions, like Lombardy,
Lombardy: In Italy, those who are in the colder regions, like Lombardy , make square wooden cases, a little larger at the
Spanish: to adjust them well to the l pommel & guards. Spanish ones are deemed better for being of better steel &
Vienne: iron, but they are not as well-forged as swords from Vienne in pro Dauphiné. The Spanish ones are not as well
Dauphiné: are not as well-forged as swords from Vienne in pro Dauphiné . The Spanish ones are not as well ground coming
Spanish: as well-forged as swords from Vienne in pro Dauphiné. The Spanish ones are not as well ground coming from the forge,
Vienne: foot, & this is what makes them wavy. Blades from Vienne commonly cost xviii or 19 lb a dozen. The first
Italians: clean fingertip, & one needs to spread it vigorously. The Italians scarcely varnish their paintings because they layer their paintings very
Germans: firestone, without transparency. With which, by mixing other Varnish The Germans make minium boil well in linseed oil, & to give
Dutch: like vials, its opening of such a size that a Dutch quill can just about fit in, & with a lip
Acre: as for the ground, they make it with azur d’ Acre for more beauty, or with lake for a quickly-done red,
English: of the burn, taught me this. Against dogs’ mange The English , who caress their dogs a lot for taking care
Germany: taking them. For casting Aspalte is, which is found in Germany , is the most excellent sand one can find for
Paris: if they are dry il dead, they wither. Plaster of Paris is as firm as stone & very good. When you
France: Il The best of the aforesaid quality is fetched in France , near Rouan. The feather alum for our sand is
Rouan: best of the aforesaid quality is fetched in France, near Rouan . The feather alum for our sand is pestled in
Germany: Spat is a whitish stone which can be found in Germany , & mainly in Augsburg, which one uses for the
Augsburg: stone which can be found in Germany, & mainly in Augsburg , which one uses for the most excellent sand that
Champagne: scrape it, & makes a powder like our chalk from Champagne . And because everything which comes from the earth is
Italians: more amiable and more appropriate than the tallow that the Italians put in, because one often has to put the tools
Germany: sand for the frame is aspalt, which is found in Germany , which is soft as flour & almo when wet,
Germany: preparing a spalt spat It is found in earth in Germany , the color of cooked plaster, made of long filaments,
Germany: has not been forty years that one knows this in Germany . Sublimate is commonly employed by goldsmiths for gold. Some
Capital: sous for a denier. I have used silver from the Capital Before binding luting & strengthening your molds for gold &
Damascus: cold water hardens it. Scimitars To know The workers from Damascus or from Hungary, neighbors to the Turks, separate, in the
Hungary: it. Scimitars To know The workers from Damascus or from Hungary , neighbors to the Turks, separate, in the ore, iron
Turks: The workers from Damascus or from Hungary, neighbors to the Turks , separate, in the ore, iron from steel. And, from
Germany: especially if they are varnished. One can find these in Germany , on the houses. But take heed that the water
capital: You can cast silver finer than the alloy from the capital and like that of the real, but you must add
Germans: Because one commonly casts in base silver, & especially the Germans , and that such an alloy readily makes a film
France: or crust, which is contrary to our some goldsmiths from France are usually quick to whiten their works, especially rough ones,
German: one as the other. But I have seen an excellent German working thus. Having in my presence cast a little lizard
German: is soft, is appropriate for the cast. Some say that German tokens are contain a lot of calamine. However, as they
German: the fumes, for they are pernicious. I wanted to use German tokens to cast medals & took thirty & xii nails
Venice: tingente to make metals run Take some ☿ sublimate of Venice , true & not arsenic sublimate, a pea, aes ustum,
Germany: prepares it with se sal ammoniac water, as spat from Germany , & it is excellent sand for frames for all
garrigue: has prettier scales & straight legs. And those of the garrigue have crooked ones. They are of long life; getting ready
garrigue: mold. Those from water are more vigorous. Those of the garrigue are thinner, slower & more sleepy. If you scratch those
garrigue: shells, however sleepy they are, they move. Those of the garrigue do not. They die rather quickly in vinegar mixed with
Foix: them & fold their legs as you wish. Molders from Foix Those who mold crosswise make their sand with crocum &
garrigue: legs straighter & better to release than those of the garrigue , which are lean, wrinkled & well ensconced in their
garrigue: do not have ones as deep as those of the garrigue , which are leaner. And among these, there are some
Venice: and rendering it very soft Take sublimate, quicklime, soap from Venice , horse dung, a little less sublimate than the others.
Germany: engraving on it well whatever you want. Base gold from Germany , electrum One calls it gold from the Rhine, which
Rhine: gold from Germany, electrum One calls it gold from the Rhine , which one finds in the rivers, and is spangle
Germany: finds in the rivers, and is spangle gold. Goldsmiths from Germany wanted to refine it, thinking to separate it from this
Germany: can make cups which will demonstrate poison. Various arts from Germany They are very much helped by water mills, & most
Syracuse: therefore shave them with fire, like d the tyrant of Syracuse , & afterward you can replace them with d’arg natural
Lorraine: in gold, one enamels the wings with window glass from Lorraine , which is verdesin and transparent. One needs to make
Paris: is good, it hardens in it, like the one of Paris & Spain, which is hard in stone, as is that
Spain: it hardens in it, like the one of Paris & Spain , which is hard in stone, as is that which
Germans: lean & dry earth and which seems like white salt. Germans make statues for their fountains with it, which are not
Portuguese: from the words of Herodotus that the navigation of the Portuguese was not newly invented by them, as they brag. At
Phoenicians: of the first book entitled Clio, he says that the Phoenicians would come from the Red Sea by continuous navigation to
Red Sea: Clio, he says that the Phoenicians would come from the Red Sea by continuous navigation to the coast of Greece, mainly to
coast of Greece: come from the Red Sea by continuous navigation to the coast of Greece , mainly to Argos, to which they would carry merchandise
Argos: by continuous navigation to the coast of Greece, mainly to Argos , to which they would carry merchandise from Egypt &
Egypt: mainly to Argos, to which they would carry merchandise from Egypt & from Assyria, which they usually sold out of within
Assyria: to which they would carry merchandise from Egypt & from Assyria , which they usually sold out of within 6 days.
Greeks: Herodotus, on the first page of Clio, says that the Greeks were on a long ship on the coast of Colchis
coast of Colchis: that the Greeks were on a long ship on the coast of Colchis & to the river Phasis, whence they carried off Medea.
river Phasis: long ship on the coast of Colchis & to the river Phasis , whence they carried off Medea. Galleys Herodotus, on the
Delphi: third page, says that Gyges presented to the temple of Delphi pateras aureas sex pondo 30 talentorum. Gold vases Herodotus. Halyattes,
Delphos: Halyattes, the father of Croesus, pateram ex ferro compactilem apud Delphos dedicavit spectatu dignam inter omnia quae sunt Delphis donaria, opus
Delphis: compactilem apud Delphos dedicavit spectatu dignam inter omnia quae sunt Delphis donaria, opus Glauci Chii qui solus omnium compactionem ferri excogitavit.
Spain: leblossoming later, the flowers come to profit. Olive trees In Spain , one lays them bare at the roots during winter,
England: musk, they put in a bit of wheat starch from England , which is perfectly white. When the amber To perfume
Portuguese: When the amber To perfume with white amber in the Portuguese fashion, take a huchau of amber, well broken up. And
Levant: red ground on porphyry and is of the color of Levant bole, & approaching minium. But that which is showered with
Spain: the alloy out of 4 reals, of 20 sous from Spain , & a coin of xx sous from France. Blowing
France: sous from Spain, & a coin of xx sous from France . Blowing When you melt silver & gold, do not
Eleusis: one discovers their craft secrets, and if the goddesses of Eleusis complain, as they did to N. the Pythagorean, that one
Hebrews: mysteries, excuse yourself based on the words of the ancient Hebrews quoted by Josephus. As the hen carefully searches the garbage
Latins: in order to teach to those who come after. The Latins took from the Greeks, as Cicero from Plato & Vergil
Greeks: to those who come after. The Latins took from the Greeks , as Cicero from Plato & Vergil from Homer. Aulus
Egyptians: Polybius. Serapis was deemed the inventor of agriculture among the Egyptians & nevertheless, so was Ceres among the Sicilians. Pythagoras &
Sicilians: among the Egyptians & nevertheless, so was Ceres among the Sicilians . Pythagoras & others from Tyana learned by their travels
Tyana: so was Ceres among the Sicilians. Pythagoras & others from Tyana learned by their travels the disciplines which they claimed to
Greek: dea, Pelidae Achillis. In Justino martire, circa principium. To the Greek examples, there can be added a psalm of David of
Le Mans: place or the gutter of some roof. Scented candle from Le Mans Among the wax & candle they melt rosin that in
France: Among the wax & candle they melt rosin that in France is called of Burgundy, which is white & not as
Burgundy: candle they melt rosin that in France is called of Burgundy , which is white & not as brittle & dry
Istre: would not receive. Or else they engrave in stone from Istre the principal side, & the reverse is of paper or
Saint-Frajou: Ouvryer received two hundred and five écus the rent of Saint-Frajou , amounting to twelve hundred and thirty livres. They have
Mechliniensis: of books Rerum Scoticarum Historia, Georgio Bucanano authore Rembertus Dodonaeus, Mechliniensis medicus, De stirpium historia Des Ormes, De l’invention de bien
