 Cousin, who resides in the Faubourg Saint-Germain, knows of the master . Mestre Jehan Garnier, in the Rue des Escrivains by
 the Rue des Escrivains by St Jacques de la Boucherie, currier . Try pastel woad flowers. List The harvester that leaves
 de la Boucherie, currier. Try pastel woad flowers. List The harvester that leaves some ears is not blamed. Sacra Eleusinae deae
 venatione Nicolaus Damascenus Caresariensis, De rebus Persarum Isidorus Osorius Eupolemus, historicus gentilis qui de rebus Davidis & Salomonis scripsit                      
                                  monsieur - Cathalogue des villes Calendrier des bergiers Grammaire italiene Arithmetique of Savonne Instruction pour le faict des
 finances à Lyon Synesius Olaus Magnus + Mestre Bernard Palissi, inventor of rustic figulines to the king and the queen mother Alexander Aphrodisaeus Polydorus
 + Mestre Bernard Palissi, inventor of rustic figulines to the king and the queen mother Alexander Aphrodisaeus Polydorus Vergilius Appianus Athenaeus
 Palissi, inventor of rustic figulines to the king and the queen mother Alexander Aphrodisaeus Polydorus Vergilius Appianus Athenaeus Pausanias Statius Thebaidos Servius,
 red. Sapphire Pebbles or crystal 8 ℥, minium 16 ℥, blacksmith ’s salt 4 ℥, sparkling coryal 4 grains. Fusion 6
 so good nor so fatty. This one is promptly dry. Frame makers , to avoid the trouble of polishing their ebony, varnish
 of polishing their ebony, varnish it with this, as do guitar makers . This is not as appropriate for panels as that
 part of this book, after sands, in the chapter on furbishers . Black varnish without fire, without disassembling the harnesses or
 good, but it does not dry as soon. Varnish of iron etchers Take linseed oil or walnut oil &, in place of
 will represent a nipple as large as a plate, and women can see the secret places that they do not want
 secret places that they do not want to show to surgeons . It casts the representation out of itself, and if
 for capes, which are cut, as said, with a file. Glass button makers also avail themselves of the said furnace. Under the door
 is made from codfish skin, boiled rather than being salted. Joiners glue their masterpieces with it and guitar maker use it
 than being salted. Joiners glue their masterpieces with it and guitar maker use it for delicate works. It wants to be strongly
 & apply it lukewarm on the pain. Against gonorrhea Aquae fabrorum antiquae lb i., boli Armeniae in tel tenuissimum pollinem redactae
 more tender stones like emerald, amethyst & others. Mixture of Pewterers Because among the fine tin they quite often mix a
 will be very beautiful & will have almost no crust. Plowman Because millet is by nature very dry, harvesters beat it
 no crust. Plowman Because millet is by nature very dry, harvesters beat it most often at night in the cool &
 that one lets the roots & stems rot in it. Painter Some, after having laid down their color, soften it with
 flat of a feather. But the large paintbrush is best. Merchant They commonly have four books. The tyrant, which is a
 have four books. The tyrant, which is a formulary for apprentices , by which they can know how much every item
 & to this one l credence is given in court. Painters They completely melt orpiment in a glass bottle on very
 it in. Vert de terre is not used with oil. Merchant The rule that merchants are accustomed to keep in their
 terre is not used with oil. Merchant The rule that merchants are accustomed to keep in their books, that is to
 delicate & dyed & employed as you know. Purple color Painters make it beautiful, making the first ground of common azur,
 oil This is a secret that is hardly known to common painters . Some take the most delicate they can & grind
 mat There is nothing better than the black varnish of furbishers to make a seat because it dries immediately & makes
 would become porous. Chimolée The terre chimolée, otherwise known as fuller ’s earth, with which they dress the cloth, is excellent
 with a closed fire, such as a reverberatory furnace or barbers' ovens. And the most freshly cooked is the best to
 too fatty. Cleaning yellow pearls Gently boil them in the goldsmiths’ bouteure then, with tripoli & a piece of leather, sprinkled
 is natural, others say that it is a secret of ancient lapidaries that is lost, others say that it is refired enamel.
 in a small iron casket on the fire of my goldsmith ’s forge with three or four small half-burnt charcoals, and
 the thing & put it inside. Then I reddened two glassworkers’ solders, & as they were red, I presented them one
 is very pale in color, because oil darkens it. Certain sophisticators mix them, but you will know this if you pour
 will be neither able to move, nor speak, nor thwart thieves . Snakes It is said that if one calls a
 a swine in Greek, y ïon, it will come. Candles Candlemakers never make good candle when the Autan wind blows because
 saltpeter in it. That is why, when they fall down, gunpowder makers profit from them. A Damasked cloth You can damask a
 well in the frame, because, if it were humid, like founders' sand, the gold and silver would spatter, & cause damage.
 which resembles a small branch. Founding of soft iron Most people consider that iron, once melted, cannot be melted again because
 it in small forges, in which it only becomes red-hot. Alchemists undertake to melt it mixed with realgar or lead or
 the pan of the round furnace holds two quintals. The miners , to make the iron run, put at the mouth
 & compass & with great speed, which the strength of workers could d not do. Therefore one raises the wall as
 blue & green, which are also more profitable for the worker . Black is less abundant because it charges much. Keeping
 the cotton droops & makes the candle drip. On the gunner The cannon fires at point blank from five to six
 any farther. Its ball commonly weighs 40 lb of the King ’s caliber. There is a cannon-perrier, which weighs xxv quintals,
 at close range. It bears a large ball of the King ’s caliber like the others, namely of 40 lb. It
 that this is a pan of Montpellier & not a King ’s pan, which is not used in the founding of
 thickness ce the length that they would have by the King ’s pan, by which measure they will be found longer.
 The pan of Montpellier is equivalent to six of the King ’s inches, which contains in it two common ones. It
 provides the material & charcoal, as one commonly does, for masters do not have the means, one gives x to xii
 xii lb per quintal. And for the mat when the master provides everything, one gives him 40 lb, according to the
 provides everything, one gives him 40 lb, according to the King ’s ordinance, per quintal for large pieces & such as
 For the more material there is, the more profit the master has of it. One founds another kind of cannon-perriers of
 forty quintals & eighteen pans long. Their ball, of the King ’s caliber & for battery, is 30 lb and thus
 the bastarde. And if one wants to fire at some cavalry quite far off, one increases the powder a little. A
 for the defense of houses, or for taking among the infantry to break a rank of cavalry. The falconet weighs 4
 for taking among the infantry to break a rank of cavalry . The falconet weighs 4 quintals, is x pans long.
 and see when it is cooked. It should be hard. Glassworker Glass from Lorraine is smoother & more even than plate
 in straight lines as if tanned, which happens because the glassmakers , having made it, put it when totally hot on
 removed with varnish & salt & other drugs that the glassworkers put on. Glass from Lorraine is sold by the bundle
 And apart from being nourishing, it makes a good stomach. Gunner As for small cannons which are not loaded with a
 loaded and from the day. Then, in order that the gunner can fire into the breach where the assailed are perhaps
 into the moats or around the breach, at which the gunner aims. Sometimes, by using the reflection of mirrors or flasks
 spiked & constrained. The most reliable way is that the gunner , who is often a founder, wedges & thoroughly rivets
 reliable way is that the gunner, who is often a founder , wedges & thoroughly rivets the nail that the enemies
 you have To bring a cannon, one needs a hundred pioneers or more to flatten the tracks by levelling ditches &
 is close to the place one wants to batter, the gunner goes at night to reconnoiter the most convenient place to
 approaches fortified towns at night, but to poorly fortified towns, pioneers bring gabions and carry once these are placed, one puts
 some boards or planks behind the gabions to keep the pioneers safe, while behind, they fill the gabions with some earth
 quickly. fired a volley at the defenses. The gabions The pioneers carry the boards to make a level ground or a
 of two gabions. As long as the battery lasts, the gunner s sleep & eat close to a cannon. In small
 are prone to blow off & cause damage to the gunner . There is nothing for it but to use a
 is proof of an arquebus between two gabions. Then a gunner loads it with a ladle, & with the rammer which
 to carry. Once the cannon is loaded, xx or xxv pioneers push it forward with bars, keeping to one side behind
 cannon reaches it. Once the cannon is in front, the gunner mounts it with the wedges which are at the back,
 the loader, the one who aims, the one who
 horses’ hooves in order that one does not hear them. Gunner There are three reinforcement rings on a cannon, one at
 breech, one in the middle, one at the mouth. When founders want to work on their craft or render the cannon
 from toward the edge of the breech. But because some gunners prefer a piece which is weighted at the front because
 many quintals the piece weighs that carries the marked caliber. Pewterers They deem the best tin is the one that comes
 been remelted since it came from the mine, because the masters remelt it a in grille, weighing two or three lb,
 weight. The tin from England is so hard that the miners put in lead to soften it. The one that comes
 that comes by way of Germany is softer. Commonly, the sworn master pewterers , from bonnes villes, add six lb of fine lead
 on or eight on a quintal of fine tin. The others, who work in the countryside , put fifteen or 20 or as much as they
 glue & passed through a linen cloth. Extraction of oils Apothecaries say that anything which does not adhere to the mortar
 this, the leaf is made for small mirrors in Nuremberg. Pewterer They also make their molds from metal which lasts longer
 out without flashing & smooth. But this is for the rich because a mold costs fifteen or sixteen frans. They are
 melt. But one rubs them with color with the finger. Painter Scribes achieve darkening of lake & other colors for garments
 But one rubs them with color with the finger. Painter Scribes achieve darkening of lake & other colors for garments with
 Brushes Take those that have been used a little by white-limers , for the harshness of the lime & use make
 pauldron of the brassard are like a masterpiece of the masters , for it is necessary that these pieces be very
 piece & thus better than those that are of two. Painter As soon as the colors of panels are well dried,
 not work in distemper. For layering gold in distemper Common painters & scribes make batture, that is joiner’s glue tempered with
 in distemper. For layering gold in distemper Common painters & scribes make batture, that is joiner’s glue tempered with water on
 in distemper Common painters & scribes make batture, that is joiner ’s glue tempered with water on the fire, moderately clear,
 renders gold beautiful if one uses it as the seat. Mat maker They make two kinds of them in Toulouse, one to
 weave almost as fine as the straw phats worn by villagers . And they make them in long bands, some the
 little copperas, which browns the blue with its black tint. Glassworker They do not have the invention for making a perfect
 on one side only, it would be too pale orange. Founder They buy rosette at xx lb a quintal, which is
 water, but they are breakable. A quintal of per fine coppersmith ’s rosette is sold for xxx or 40 lb. Another,
 rosette is sold for xxx or 40 lb. Another, which founders use, is sold for xii or xv lb. The quintal
 brazilwood rosette or black cherry juice, upon the nose. The conjuror ought not to amuse himself by watching what he is
 by watching what he is doing, but look at the spectators and give them plenty of good hocus-pocus words so that
 make it hold against your forehead. Then say to the bystander that if you put it thus on his forehead, he
 the little hole is. Next, make one of the close bystanders drink the rest of the wine or cast it aside
 marked C into the glass. But you must make the fellow bend his head enough in order to do it well.
 wall without making a hole in it X Make a servant hold it to the wall. X How not to break
 of a shirt of rough cloth, like that of a messenger , who, if you want to tear up his shirt,
 folded handkerchief, if you do not want to use a conjuror ’s pouch. First show the empty bushel, then in front
 hurts, that is to say, the bottom of the needle. Founder Kitchen pots are made well, in order not to give
 metal the bells are made of. It is true that founablesders mix in more latten to make them yellower, to make
 there be space to remove & take it with pincers. Glassworkers ’ glass One says that in Lorraine & in Flanders
 pebbles, and first they blow a long bubble, which another worker , with long shears, cleaves & cuts lengthwise. Then, having
 wetting, but not as precisely as with the hot iron. Founder The metal whitens the more it is melted, because the
 them to dry. And do thus two or three times. Gardener For sowing melons well, it needs to be at the
 one must moisten them with s a decoction of wormwood. Glassworker Some do not apply gris d’escaille to the glass for
 not take on it at all. And likewise, if the glassworker who is working has a stench from his nose or
 they are pierced and it is said that a certain king had made from these a certain ornament in the shape
 mixed, & the said marigold even gives some color. Sapphire Stone cutters sometimes choose old pieces of antique glass in church windows,
 for it is not undone in the rain like earth. Merchant Those who sell velvet & es other stuffs by retail
 Black cloth is thin so that the dyeing is inexpensive. Goldsmith They assemble silver filings with saltpeter which refines it &
 silver does not do. This is why, to save money, goldsmiths use it to assemble, in order to save borax, which
 sous per ounce, & saltpeter x sous per lb. When goldsmiths have thus assembled their silver filings with saltpeter, a red
 woad, one ploughs the soil with shovels of iron, as gardeners do. Next, one harrows it with rakes, & breaks it
 as if golden or silver. One assays it in the dyers ’ vat, and to fill a vat with it, one
 you want to paint with colors in the fashion of glassworkers , who wash their glass pane with noir d’escaille &
 with a background of colors, which imitates the basse-taille of goldsmiths , gild your entire glass pane with gum water or
 Some take the root of lapathium acutum maius, which resembles monk ’s rhubarb or sorrel, & with the root, which is
 with water poured on pomace soured after being pressed by vintagers , but it does not keep, & spoils in heat
 then in oil. Next one affixes it. Cross of the commanders of Malta This beautiful rouge clair which makes the field of the
 down on a silver leaf, not the kind which the painters use, but a thicker kind, which is burnished by those
 painters use, but a thicker kind, which is burnished by those who make gemstone foils Av or by goldsmiths, & that gives it this beautiful
 burnished by those who make gemstone foils Av or by goldsmiths , & that gives it this beautiful brilliance. Latten and
 & that gives it this beautiful brilliance. Latten and calamine Founders do not melt latten in a à vent bellows furnace
 as much of it is wasted. Earth for casting, for founders It renders itself fatty once beaten and also mixed with
 itself fatty once beaten and also mixed with horse dung. Potter ’s earth would be too fatty and would crack &
 in bread for them and scattering in well chopped lettuces. Glassworkers’ black Iron scale taken from bars that have been in
 d a little minium to it. Sheared ewes If the shearer sometimes wounds them, he puts the very dung of the
 shear & do not get wounded so easily. If the shearer wants to viscorter them, that is to say castrate, when
 without gold, mix soaked dried saffron with a little massicot. Founder The mold of earth is reheated until, sometimes, it is
 bronzing on plaster One needs to give four layers of painters ’ distemper glue on the plaster portrait, always leaving each
 per adoperarla, datte il negro di resina con colla di pintori da pintar & per doi o tre volte, fin a
 pulverized talc blown into with a lamp renders them thus. Arquebusier For firing your arquebus precisely, it is necessary that the
 v deniers of powder & a range of lx paces. Pewterer They mix viii lb or ten of lead, per quintal
 lead, per quintal of tin in cities where they are sworn masters . But elsewhere, they add as much as they can.
 of debris, that is to say the copper shards that coppersmiths make. This makes the plate more sonorous and it is
 One ought to leave only two buds on the graft. Scribe , Oil of sulfur If the scribe wants to clean
 buds on the graft. Scribe, Oil of sulfur If the scribe wants to clean his quill promptly of the thickness of
 sulfur. And it will immediately be white & clean. Urb. Shoemaker If he wants to do some tanned work on black
 crucibles for melting metal should be better than those for glassmakers , as glass is not as heavy as metal. And
 winter & humid weather are not good. Those of the founders must be thick and must be luted. Casting Finely calcined
 and red like the metal. And it withstands several casts. Founder The heating For a furnace for melting a large quantity
 antimony renders them breakable. The looking-glass tin whitens them. One Pewterers put in on the fine tin one lb of looking-glass
 tin. The brittle one is cast in grille by the pewterers to sell it better. O They come out better &
 lead. Those who make very neat lead casts, use puncheon. Pewterers cast in a copper mold. One says that one makes
 renders the work stronger. Poncet They cast with solder that pewterers glassworkers use. Lump of iron Calcined iron oyster shell Sand
 the work stronger. Poncet They cast with solder that pewterers glassworkers use. Lump of iron Calcined iron oyster shell Sand for
 boiled, dried & finely sieved, bound with glair of egg. Pewterers They put into one quintal of fine tin one lb
 linnet, some rapeseed. Curried steel and files The steel that farriers & iron workers commonly use is not refined like that
 rapeseed. Curried steel and files The steel that farriers & iron workers commonly use is not refined like that from Germany or
 the other, as it comes from the mine. And the workers choose it & use it like the other steel. And
 mix some soap in it & do as is said. Cutters of printing plates To clean the copper plates, or to make worn ones
 in a pot. which is different from that of the printers , one needs to boil walnut oil or, even better,
 fenugreek or other hot foods, for the intention of the worker is to it to use the heat of its dung,
 the colors without grinding. And these show very beautifully in illumination work. Soldering a vise It is good that the jaws
 Languedoc iii lb v s. The one from Spain that merchants bring there is considered the best because the worms which
 good to have little resin balls prepared like those of shoemakers & to throw to them as they yap at you,
 inclination, pour out the cloudy water, then gather the azure. The one who makes a profession of working in oil will hardly work well in distemper if he has not
 Florence is too gummed. If you make a layer of printers ’ ink on velvet and there apply gold leaf and
 coarse bread on it to rid the marble of grease. Sheath maker Sheath makers use small, very delicate skins of lambs and
 on it to rid the marble of grease. Sheath maker Sheath makers use small, very delicate skins of lambs and young goats,
 iron scale, one after the other, as even as the tanners do. And this dye, being astringent, makes the leather shrink
 done differently and can be retraced with a hot iron. Painter Good crayons are not made with good glue but with
 is not too thick for it would break easily. Flemish painters have such panels made by the dozen. Neat work When
 colors flake, which next come off. And for this reason, painters use it to clean their oil paintbrush when they have
 clean immediately, penetrating the dry color which encrusts them. Also, painters , sometimes envious of the work undertaken by another, in
 tip of the paintbrushes, in f the fashion of good illuminators , and grind their colors very finely, protect against dust,
 light a harsh work. Water to give light for the painter Distill some vine water & put it into a big
 never exquisit with colors. And by a line of charcoal, masters pass judgement on their apprentices. First make the outline of
 by a line of charcoal, masters pass judgement on their apprentices . First make the outline of your drawing, that is
 In so doing, you will teach yourself to be an artist , and if you need to undo anything, you will
 with colors, and with less effort. Drawing To become an artist , one needs to draw by eye, without compass or
 one needs to draw by eye, without compass or ruler. Masters do not allow apprentices to do this. When the imprimatura
 by eye, without compass or ruler. Masters do not allow apprentices to do this. When the imprimatura has been long done,
 In the second, they en make the cast. Shadows German painters make their shadows on flesh color of men with ground
 Colors hardly change when they are dry. Apprenticeship of the painter First, one gives him an egg to do in which
 a candle, for firelight will make the shadows reddish. The painter also teaches himself with the mirror, for he sees in
 unfinished picture in water so that it shall not dry. Illuminators painting on paper temper their colors with gum & mix
 mix in a little soap to make them run better. Painters must all learn how to depict after nature, for to
 your fingertips. For in this way you will acquire an artist ’s l stroke & will render your hand nimble. Glazing
 the others. White and black It is good that an apprentice should work with white & black for two or three
 & black for two or three years to become an artist . Lead white It does not die & has a
 done with glair supports oil. It is with this that painters trick the poor peasants, painting their bands of taffeta with
 supports oil. It is with this that painters trick the poor peasants , painting their bands of taffeta with this glair, to
 not be good. The square large square files used by locksmiths for their rough work are only made of soft iron,
 iron, but the soft files must be made of steel. Founders whose work is to repair latten & copper must have
 softest kind you can find, like the Champagne one that painters use. It releases very neatly, does not want to be
 soft without any asperity, like the p colors that the painters grind for oil. This one, once dry, you can use
 tin that seems to be burnished in little wheels that pewterers sell, comes out very neatly & approaching the color of
 leaves, hair &
 moistened with wine or magistra &c / Verte The Toulouse molder reheats it strongly then grinds it finely on marble and
 copper, like a quarter part, with the substance of skillets. Founders do cast frames up to 30 or 40 lb, but
 dried in the sun. Others, for casting in lead, old printers ' type or the composition thereof. Others put into the
 wood that is there, they die. This is why some rich people of England make their ceilings from this wood, &
 in copper, but one ought not to take those of cutlers , because it is only sludge, but rather those of
 who grind mold large shears. Pierres de filieres, with which those who sharpen , mold very neatly, once scraped, for lead. It is
 One frequently brings them to Toulouse from around Carcassonne . Printer’s letters Those who make them, mix into the lead some
 deva & rest a little before casting. Some, such as printers , mix iron or pin filings in the lead, but
 the hottest pot you can, and put into the pot goldsmith’s water, verdigris, and leave for the space of some time,
 until it is dry enough. Then take varnish from an apothecary , dash by blows, one quite far from the other.
 deniers'-worth of verdigris, am pitch, & a quart of cuyr currier's water, and if you cannot find it, you will put
 the nose. Against colds, rheums, and other maladies. Fatty earth Founders , to make the handles of their bells, use it.
 some grais powder, ___ ___ ___, iron filings, ironware, alum, currier ’s’ black, copperas, & glass alum. For making water for
 casting They use common tin, which is the one that pewterers use to make plate, which is composed of 9 or
 that there is nothing better than fine tin. Mixture for printers Make a layer of pulverized antimony, & a layer of
 straight pipe, & nevertheless does not descend as far down. Founders of small works of tin They usually cast with solder, even the things that should
 of which are made the sharpening stones or files of barbers , which are found in great flakes near the mountains,
 hot so that it runs. And vents. Earth for molding Tanner ’s earth, or the one with which potters make a
 Earth for molding Tanner’s earth, or the one with which potters make a whitening on pots to make lead run better
 of eggs gives strength to sand to make several casts. Clockmakers To divide the teeth of their cogwheels proportionately, they do
 & distribution of the teeth as fine as they please. Clockmakers In the past, they tempered their springs by dipping them
 danger breaking, but you can lute it as you know founders do. And also, one ought to maintain the charcoal between
 for lead ℞ grey soot from the furnace of the silversmiths , quick lime, and flour, ana, moistened according to the
 the art, being the finest possible. The grey soot of locksmiths , which is held in the forge, is very fine
 gold color, that is to say minium, massicot & varnish. Founder They mix beaten glair of egg with earth with which
 are of metal have more of a ring for the apothecaries . Grenades must be of fine metal. Sand from the
 skillet, I passed it through a fine sieve, like the apothecaries ’ double, without finely grinding it further on the porphyry,
 to melt than copper, being more brittle. Some of the founders have this superstition, that only three days a week are
 put a piece of carton of whatever thickness you please. Founders , in order to prevent their large cast works from
 one ought to press hard and moisten them sufficiently. Magistra Founders take the roots of a young elm when it is
 sunny side takes very rarely when it is also bent. Baker Dust keeps wheat from becoming infested with weevils. And to
 do not want the metal to be cast too hot. Artisans who work in large works &, who for profit, do not need to grind &
 powder, they get moistened together & dry & reheat together. Glassmakers’ white sand from the mine, mixed with sal ammoniac There
 Aurignac, a sand white mai like salt and lean, that glassmakers & potters use, which becomes impalpable ground on porphyry &
 sand white mai like salt and lean, that glassmakers & potters use, which becomes impalpable ground on porphyry & is easy
 otherwise with the napkin, & it releases very neatly. Sand Molders from Foix who cast theireu medals crosswise, use crocum ferri
 very flat things. That any sand can be rendered good Artisans who work in large works & who need to further their profit by seeking things
 in in the surroundings of all the bonnes villes where artisans willingly gather. And thus, if they do not have it
 ashes of paper & similarly washed things. Terre fondue of potters Grind it in a mortar mustard mill with some water
 which a good material does not do. Molding statues Half founder ’s earth which founders use & half clay earth g
 material does not do. Molding statues Half founder’s earth which founders use & half clay earth g renders very neatly. Sand
 of saltpeter, ana, with sufficient quantity of old water from farriers . Or else, melt 4 ℥ of tin, & as
 with the hands, for this makes them spoil. Observation from rustics That when it freezes on Palm Sunday, it freezes all
 vigor, because being imbibed, it becomes dark. To try it, painters bring their palette to the grocers, & temper & alloy
 dark. To try it, painters bring their palette to the grocers , & temper & alloy it with a little white
 one that is blac dark red is not as pleasant. Furbisher The parts of a sword are the rivet, the tail
 gives them the edge by pulling upward from the point. Those who create sword guards are artisans separate from the furbisher. A is the bruisson
 upward from the point. Those who create sword guards are artisans separate from the furbisher. A is the bruisson B is
 Those who create sword guards are artisans separate from the furbisher . A is the bruisson B is the bloodstone The
 with fresil, which is the iron scale falling at the farriers ’ forge. scabbard bench a b D the baston a
 baston a felinder c the flin or thunder stone The furbisher buys his blades by the dozen, which are not fully
 xviii or 19 lb a dozen. The first thing the furbisher does when he gets his new blades is to draw
 their tang, which he does himself or has done by locksmiths or farriers, giving him some liard for his charcoal. Next,
 which he does himself or has done by locksmiths or farriers , giving him some liard for his charcoal. Next, they
 crosswise Onioned, which is with a flat head In the King ’s manner, which are plain The furbishers buy them by
 flat head In the King’s manner, which are plain The furbishers buy them by dozens, the dozen of plain ones commonly
 sous or depending on its fashion. The first thing the apprentice does is to furbish as said. And next, to garnish
 any knots & are one finger’s thickness across. Then the furbisher puts them on a small bench, called a scabbard bench,
 g plane small iron tool similar to that of the joiners ’ bench, they make it hold firmly. Then, with ae
 the wood roughly from the top, next one passes the joiner ’s plane on it the better to even it. Next,
 a chisel, one cuts the excess. And one passes a joiner ’s plane to even it well, according to the mark.
 viii or 9 or x scabbards can be taken. A workman can easily make vi a day. If they are too
 does not leave it there for long. Next, the same worker who made the wood piece has to adjust the scabbard to be well made. It
 scabbard to be well made. It is true that for common people , one may well get ones which are ready made,
 them over a good charcoal fire that is on the furbishers ’ furnace, without them touching the charcoal or the ash.
 the gold needs to be thicker & stronger than for painters . A quarteron is worth fifty or lx sous. Gilding
 Working on glass It is a strange thing that the workers of this art cannot work well if they do not
 & cut to measure, and prune from the bottom up. Locksmith To tin nails well, and other work, they file their
 can be clarified & renewed by heating & rubbing them. Leadsmiths say that making a lizard die in the melted il
 as if it were leaded or vitrified. I believe that glassmakers could use it. One needs very little sal ammoniac dissolved
 order that it does not break. This can serve for perfumers . & la t the pestle, also of glass. Mortar
 pour ℥ of sel de verre; & some & the common people put in e sandiver that they find at the glassmakers'
 people put in e sandiver that they find at the glassmakers ' or apothecaries'. But alkali salt, as you know, is
 in e sandiver that they find at the glassmakers' or apothecaries '. But alkali salt, as you know, is better. In
 salt, as you know, is better. In this way, the common people make emeralds & cast in sand. If you do not
 weight of a grain of gold leaf of what the painters gild, & grind Some say that, mixing the gold with
 three spoonfuls of white wine, but this is for the elderly . Paul III used it. Cast Tin comes out better
 This causes hair to regrow & leaves no scar. A gunpowder maker who had almost completely burnt himself m’a & showed no
 dogs a lot for taking care of their livestock, have grooms for them, who not particularly hold this office. And melting
 it is
 silver & of gilt silver with which one makes the archers ’ haquetons. Spinet playing by itself Make an axle surrounded
 in oil if one did not put verdigris with it. Painter Colors laid down twice are thicker in and of themselves,
 it chopped sheep’s heart & immediately some eggs & mealworms. Fountain maker As you will see below in the discussion of the
 As you will see below in the discussion of the molder , reheated plaster promptly mixed into water & put on
 aseurés azure eyes. They hardly ever bite in water, which crayfish catchers experience. The sand mixture is of two parts of plaster,
 marble. And the white one que v in powder that apothecaries sell is good. It is ground better su in the
 very fine. Crocum ferri must be set ablaze in a glassmaker’s fournaise for four days. Molds can only be used once
 fashion than cloth shearings in the founder’s earth of the founders of great works , because these cloth shearings & cloth waste burn and
 occasion as fine as said, but leave it as the apothecaries have ground it, for it does not hinder the neatness
 which are thinner. One casts with common silver, with which goldsmiths commonly work, which alloys indifferently Et que. And when one
 neatly in a pot earthen vessel in the fornaise of those who make pots , and one leaves it there until the pots are
 which does not burn. This is done either in the goldsmith ’s forge, surrounded with bricks, or in a fourneau à
 turns & from the side, as do Satan & his disciples . It has a small head but a very long
 writhes in the shape of an S. I saw that the one who taught me to mold them did not take this into account, & assured me that
 of this earth equally flattened with a round stick which pastry makers use, which should be a little thicker than a thumb.
 clear like a pureed broth, or like starch water that women use to make their starch. For there is no risk
 to reheat in the fire of the fornaise of the potters , then one soaks it again in the same water.
 were good that your crocum had previously been in the glassmaker’s fornaise, three or four days and three days and three
 better. You could cast gold well in common sand of goldsmiths , should you throw therein some substance that makes it
 one knows this in Germany. Sublimate is commonly employed by goldsmiths for gold. Some add sulfur, but they & others are
 can find, which should be very fine, like that which goldsmiths use use to work enamel or like that for stampings.
 that your experience will teach you. The sand with which goldsmiths buff enamels or the white one that glassmakers use, &
 with which goldsmiths buff enamels or the white one that glassmakers use, & any lean sand that does not hold together,
 the three parts of an earthenware bowl, from which the peasants eat their soup, of the aforesaid sand, & add to
 the sandy earth de qu mixed with cloth waste which founders use to cast their cannons, or any good lute which
 mixture one needs to make the silver run. If the goldsmiths knew knew the substance to make silver run in their
 it with earth mixed with dung or founder’s earth that artillery founders use. And in this, be careful & diligent, & do
 not melted and mixed, it will not be well made. Goldsmiths who have knowledge of this substance sell a denier of
 sell a denier of it for 5 sous to other goldsmiths , & especially to those who work in plate and
 it for 5 sous to other goldsmiths, & especially to those who work in plate and large wares , for at the end of their works, they can
 else after you have had your drugs pestled by some rustic . And having put them in your crucible, & the
 placed into the furnace, have the fire managed by a shop boy familiar with charcoal. One sells well to silversmiths this metallic
 a shop boy familiar with charcoal. One sells well to silversmiths this metallic mass to soften their solder, because when melting,
 gold inside, and it is also the opinion of good goldsmiths that the good one is made with gold. Casting with
 such as pot in a reverberatory furnace. So that when goldsmiths want to cast some important piece of gold e that
 water, for cold water hardens it. Scimitars To know The workers from Damascus or from Hungary, neighbors to the Turks, separate,
 from both sides & the animal is outside of it. Founders ’ earth It is terre bolvene mixed with dung or
 put the clamps back & lute it with this aforesaid founders ’ earth & sprinkle a little sifted ash & let
 little the half-lit charcoals in the forge. The earth that founders use to braze or solder, which is sandy clay earth,
 a little borax in the melted silver, for even though goldsmiths do not put any in, nevertheless it is good, and
 a film or crust, which is contrary to our some goldsmiths from France are usually quick to whiten their works, especially
 armpit. Which must be a bad drug, & for the master , if he is red-haired, & for the apprentice too.
 for the master, if he is red-haired, & for the apprentice too. Molded waxes Figures of wax composed of ceruse &
 mix in whatever color you want. This is the wax goldsmiths use for modeling. Feet of smalls female lizards for gold
 crucible reheat until it is quite red. Then, make your boy blow on it with long and strong pushes, for in
 be done, to embrace the medal. DEsm Enamelling thin works Goldsmiths scrape gold leaf with the brim of a burin, &
 latten from skillets in which one makes the mush for little children , which is soft, is appropriate for the cast. Some
 some type of tail, like glass, when you cast it. Casters do not usually take that very yellow latten, because of
 it on each melted metal, & it will run marvelously. Founders of large casts for statues throw in much tartar to clean it of its filth
 disagrees with it, which renders dangerous the work of the founder , for one only needs a spring of water in
 it holds in the fire. Gold cast very thinly When goldsmiths have something to solder promptly and do not have leisure
 it, you can reattach it or else fill it with goldsmith ’s cement, because it can be painted. The crayfish is
 only be more beautiful. Therefore, make your slab of yellow potter ’s earth, like for other figures, lay your crayfish on
 one, nor better. Take this lean earth of which the founders of artillery & bells make their trusseaulx and molds, which is lean & sandy.
 will manipulate them & fold their legs as you wish. Molders from Foix Those who mold crosswise make their sand with
 which one finds in the rivers, and is spangle gold. Goldsmiths from Germany wanted to refine it, thinking to separate it
 very much helped by water mills, & most of the artisans of metals, of gold, & of silver, & others , make have their large works beaten with these trip
 looking-glass tin to harden it. Molding vases in several pieces Goldsmiths who work in large wares and plate get whatever wooden forms they please turned on a lathe.
 little thick, & readily makes some flaw around the cast. Maistre Alexandre says that he has never gone wrong with half
 afterward, for varnishing sword guards tawny. And could also serve makers of gilded leather well. One needs to use it when it is newly
 sand, & having placed it on the bequet of the goldsmith’s table, where one files, place your work on it &
 color goes away with whitening & bullitoire. Sweetening silver When goldsmiths who work large wares have forged their platters, it very often happens with their
 has been worked, & pulverize it & throw it in. Goldsmiths do not work at all with the silver from reals
 same melted wax, to render them equal. A means of goldsmiths for molding hollow They mold in two cuttlefish bones their
 silver, and then solder or braze them. Rouge clair Some goldsmiths assay it on gold, thinly beaten esp & well burnished
 it so that the supraplus (which is the masselote for founders of large castings ), Et especially for silver, which wants the mold quite
 better, one needs to dress them in the fashion that curriers do, in order that they do not lose a feather,
 oven #. Then arrange them on the trees, & have someone who sings , & you will gather them & catch many. in
 sieve it finely. Put them in some pots into the tiler ’s oven or bread oven, several times when it is
 assembly & things joined. Iron vase joined and soldered As small peddlers lay open small wares in order to buy richer ones
 common commerce of letters, much rarer secrets from my benevolent readers . Aes ustum Once finely pulverized, it molds very neatly
 on top & that through this means it is neater. Perfumer They readily put half of amber & half of musk
 the harvester is not reproached for leaving some ears of wheat. If
 not reproached for leaving some ears of wheat. If any artisans complain that one discovers their craft secrets, and if the
 that she divides among her chicks, thus one distributes to orphans that which has been sought among the arts considered vile
 Aulus Gellius, Valerius Maximus only made a collection from various authors who had already written. Livy made his xxiii book from
 the 2nd or 3rd of Polybius. Serapis was deemed the inventor of agriculture among the Egyptians & nevertheless, so was Ceres
 invented in their country, &c. Will one not say the weaver has made a cloth or precious stuff, even though he
 the bobbins and balls of thread? Will one say the mason has not made a house, but only piled up ready-made
 house, but only piled up ready-made stones? Apollo a Chirone medicari didicit & tamen deus medicinae habitus. Homerus Orphei poema imitatus
 use little bells worn by oxen or mules on a peasant door. Others load two pistol barrels &, with a gimlet
 saws or gimlets. N. Are large augers & gimlets of wheelwrights for smoothly cutting a door or window by making large
 tender with calcined black river pebbles Molding very thin like bimbalotiers do They mold in paper & carton, for neither earth,
 books Rerum Scoticarum Historia, Georgio Bucanano authore Rembertus Dodonaeus, Mechliniensis medicus , De stirpium historia Des Ormes, De l’invention de bien
