 I have taken minium, 26 ℥, crystal and ground on marble 12 ℥, verdet 3 |ʒ|. Incorporate all together, put in
 ℥, verdet 3 |ʒ|. Incorporate all together, put in a crucible covered with another, well luted, that has a hole in the top . Fusion 7 hours without blowing. The mass was of
 all together, put in a crucible covered with another, well luted , that has a hole in the top. Fusion 7
 other than recooked resin. To do it well, take a leaded pot & melt the resin, & boil it over the brazier
 pot & melt the resin, & boil it over the brazier a good hour, & until it appears not to be
 & easily runs & flows from the tip of a stick with which you grind it, & test it. Then pour
 grind it, & test it. Then pour it through a coarse canvas or a very light tammy cloth, such that when pouring
 it. Then pour it through a coarse canvas or a very light tammy cloth , such that when pouring it falls into the strongest
 effect. The coral made of gules red enamel endures the file and polishing. It is made like cement that is stronger
 It is made like cement that is stronger mixed with pestled than of glass rather than with brick. Thus, here one
 glass rather than with brick. Thus, here one mixes well pestled gules red enamel, which is red in body, with the
 a lb of Venice turpentine & heat it in a pot until it simmers, and put in half a lb of
 to the varnish, which needs to be applied with the finger in order to spread it thinner and less thick, for
 lb & is sold for 40 sous per lb. This vessel is for making large quantities of turpentine oil, that is
 sold at xii sous, & at the bottom of the vessel remains the colophony, or pix graeca. In this vessel, eau-de-vie
 the vessel remains the colophony, or pix graeca. In this vessel , eau-de-vie is also made well, and there is no
 need to distill it again. You do not need a oven for this copper vessel, but only charcoal around it if
 it again. You do not need a oven for this copper vessel , but only charcoal around it if it has a
 if it is round, you will place it on a trivet . It is better to heat the varnish a little
 Some say it is not good to distil in this copper vessel because it makes things green. However, when tinned, it is
 by taking a little of the said varnish on a plate , and if it is fatty when you handle it
 if it is fatty when you handle it with a finger , it is ready. And for one lb of lavender
 is yellowish & varnishing it anew Take white soap & sieved ashese, & soak both in water. And with a sponge,
 sieved ashese, & soak both in water. And with a sponge , take the said ashes & soap & rub the
 you see that the old varnish is removed, throw a bucket of water against the panel to clean it. Next put
 a low charcoal fire & apply your varnish with a feather or a brush. And when you see that it no
 fire & apply your varnish with a feather or a brush . And when you see that it no longer smokes,
 fire it will mix in by itself. Varnish with a brush & it will soon be dry. Turpentine varnish will be
 no longer smokes, it is dry. Next engrave with a steel point whatever you want. Next take salt & verdigris & mix
 this liquor or sauce on the engraved object with a sponge or linen & leave it thus for xx4 hours &
 times past they were commonly made of steel polished with emery putty . But more easily, various kinds are made with cuivre
 is rosette & tin, because it is cast in a mold & made round, concave, convex & however one likes, to
 which has not yet been used. Put them in a crucible , & first melt the copper well. And once it
 in the tin and mix together. Then cast in the mold, of white stone with no eyelets , & anoint the mold with oil, & let it
 mold, of white stone with no eyelets, & anoint the mold with oil, & let it be moderately warm. Then, having
 with oil, & let it be moderately warm. Then, having molded your mirror, you can polish it in this way. Set
 firmly, & then put the other one over it with thin sand in between, & rub one against the other, whether it
 the plaster to polish. After having polished them with the arene you can soften them with Venice tripoli, which should not
 polished them with the arene you can soften them with Venice tripoli , which should not be sandy, & next with putty.
 Venice tripoli, which should not be sandy, & next with putty . You polish with arene using water, but polishing with
 not be sandy, & next with putty. You polish with arene using water, but polishing with tripoli & putty is done
 putty. You polish with arene using water, but polishing with tripoli & putty is done dry. Once polished, you can set
 polish with arene using water, but polishing with tripoli & putty is done dry. Once polished, you can set it. Concave
 see oneself from behind, it is necessary to place the concave mirror on the ground on its foot, & let it be
 night for someone quite far away, if you place the concave mirror behind a candle placed on the window. You will be
 far away, if you place the concave mirror behind a candle placed on the window. You will be able to read
 place the concave mirror behind a candle placed on the window . You will be able to read and write quite
 be able to read and write quite far from the candle if you place it behind the candle & place &
 far from the candle if you place it behind the candle & place & turn the concavity toward you. If you
 & turn the concavity toward you. If you put the mirror at the end of a table & a candle on
 If you put the mirror at the end of a table & a candle on it, it will represent two lights
 the mirror at the end of a table & a candle on it, it will represent two lights on the table
 candle on it, it will represent two lights on the table for you. To see what is happening on a street,
 round, from one side to the other. Then place a sheet of paper on the window & let the middle of the sheet
 the other. Then place a sheet of paper on the window & let the middle of the sheet be over the
 paper on the window & let the middle of the sheet be over the hole. Pierce the sheet in the same
 middle of the sheet be over the hole. Pierce the sheet in the same place as the hole & the same
 the same size. After, place the concave face of the mirror toward the hole, & it will represent to you all
 all those who pass by in the street on the sheet of paper . Similarly with the pierced door of a closed room.
 fire to straw from quite far away, and lights a candle with the sun. Also, it heats through the reverberation of
 it quite well in clean water. Next, grind it on marble & temper it with water of ret hide glue. Next,
 & any other work you like, & burnish with the tooth . You can grind pin filings & apply them with
 wood. And once the last is dry, rub it with prele , which is a plant otherwise called horsetail, to render
 rub it with prele, which is a plant otherwise called horsetail , to render it well polished. Next take fine boli
 that you want to gild with a piece of white cloth to better smooth it, & when the rubbed place is
 will be carried well. Having rubbed, wash with a clean paintbrush soaked in clear water the place that you want to
 & glaze with it de, grind Venice laque platte on marble with walnut or linseed oil. Once ground, mix turpentine or
 spike lavender varnish & apply on the gold with the paintbrush . Brazilwood & laque ronde die. For green, temper verdigris
 it. > For ga cachcages You can embellish them with enamel cannules of various colors by covering the latten or iron wire
 by covering the latten or iron wire with the said cannules . These you will break neatly to the length that
 length that you want if you slightly notch with a cutting file the place to be broken, and they will not break
 at any other place. You can bend them with a wood model over a chafing-dish or else by the heat of the
 You can bend them with a wood model over a chafing-dish or else by the heat of the lamp. It can
 over a chafing-dish or else by the heat of the lamp . It can also be drawn as long as you
 also be drawn as long as you want in a small furnace made like a reverberatory furnace but which is pierced on
 as you want in a small furnace made like a reverberatory furnace but which is pierced on both sides. And when the
 which is pierced on both sides. And when the large cannule is red, they seize the hot end using small pincers
 large cannule is red, they seize the hot end using small pincers with a long beak , such that one prong of the beak of the
 beak, such that one prong of the beak of the small pincers enters inside the end of the cannule, & thus it
 of the small pincers enters inside the end of the cannule , & thus it is lengthened without becoming stopped, &
 lengthened without becoming stopped, & the other end of the cannule is held with the hand, because it is not hot.
 with the hand, because it is not hot. When the cannule is stretched enough, the one who works seated, having his
 is stretched enough, the one who works seated, having his furnace the size of a carnation pot before him, breaks it
 him, breaks it off & continues. This is for making cannules for capes, which are cut, as said, with a file.
 cannules for capes, which are cut, as said, with a file . Glass button makers also avail themselves of the said
 file. Glass button makers also avail themselves of the said furnace . Under the door is a grate that supports the
 themselves of the said furnace. Under the door is a grate that supports the lit charcoal, & the ash is emptied
 lit charcoal, & the ash is emptied by turning the furnace upside down. For stampings to embellish and encrust or cover
 pounced and drawn there, next clean it up with a burin or chisel. Then pour soft tin which has not been
 drawn there, next clean it up with a burin or chisel . Then pour soft tin which has not been used
 Then pour soft tin which has not been used onto polished marble & with a wooden board, flatten it quite thin. Or
 has not been used onto polished marble & with a wooden board , flatten it quite thin. Or else cast it in
 in tablet form like lead, or put it through a roller press . Next lay your tin plate over the etched thing,
 the etched thing, & over the tin plate put a piece of felt and strike on top with a hammer. Then gild it
 a piece of felt and strike on top with a hammer . Then gild it in this way. For gilding with
 for glueing paper or similar things, wetting it with the mouth . One beats it and soaks it in in eau-de-vie
 walnuts & throw them one after another into a good brazier where they may catch fire, & take them out with
 where they may catch fire, & take them out with small pincers , and let them burn & flame well in the
 flame well in the air, and extinguish them in a glass of good wine . Next, let the wine cool and strain it, &
 urine, incorporate everything well together, little by little, in a mortar , then boil all together quite thoroughly. But the pot
 a mortar, then boil all together quite thoroughly. But the pot needs to be well covered in order that the fumes
 it is urine, imbibed & separated by inclination, in an alembic, well-luted & covered with a copper helmet & soak a linen cloth with the said water &
 urine, imbibed & separated by inclination, in an alembic, well- luted & covered with a copper helmet & soak a linen
 well-luted & covered with a copper helmet & soak a linen cloth with the said water & apply it lukewarm on the
 the gold leaf, & once quite dry, rub with a linen cloth and only the lettering will remain. For bursting grenades and
 Polishing of the balas ruby It is not polished with tripoli but like the others, but with marcasite powder & oil.
 not polished with tripoli but like the others, but with marcasite powder & oil. Or and argent moulu You need to calcine
 make the said mercury fly off. Next grind it on marble with gum water. As for silver one needs to take
 at it with aquafortis, then take it out with a copper blade & rinse it thoroughly and next grind it with gum
 it with gum water. Polishing of stones There are three wheels for doing this, one of tin, one of lead & one of fine copper . On the cu copper wheel only the diamond, the
 of lead & one of fine copper. On the cu copper wheel only the diamond, the ruby, sapphire & oriental jacinth are
 & oriental jacinth are commonly cut co or polished. The tin wheel is for more tender stones like emerald, amethyst & others.
 to render it sonorous. Perfect amalgam Take the most delicate grais you can & hollow it in the middle. Put in
 down their color, soften it with the flat of a feather . But the large paintbrush is best. Merchant They commonly
 it with the flat of a feather. But the large paintbrush is best. Merchant They commonly have four books. The tyrant,
 given in court. Painters They completely melt orpiment in a glass bottle on very hot ashes, but it would be more appropriate
 would be more appropriate to sublimate orpiment in a long-necked matrass as for making garnets. The orpiment thus turns red like
 base of silver or of tin leaf. You can also file horn & mix it with strong glue, & layer it
 of the piece of horn, then even it with a joiner's plane . Stil de grain yellow It is made in Lyon
 you have poured it, mix continuously very well with an iron until the lead and salt are well incorporated, and lift
 continuously. And if it seems too coarse, grind it on marble and pass it through a fine sieve. Then wash it
 coarse, grind it on marble and pass it through a fine sieve . Then wash it so many times that the water
 put a piece of ceruse, & tie them together with thread . Then boil in clear water, & it will become
 with ceruse, which binds it, and next prick with an awl in several places the area they want to paint with
 distemper. The main thing is to grind it well on marble , and before that, to have washed it thoroughly. Some
 or six waters and lay it on not with a paintbrush , which would be too soft, but with a brush
 a paintbrush, which would be too soft, but with a brush thoroughly softened & crimped, & layering it thickly as if
 thickly as if one were putting it down with a trowel ; settling down it evens out and flattens. I have
 little, I removed the water, still q blue, with a sponge and squeezed it into another vessel thus where it settled,
 q blue, with a sponge and squeezed it into another vessel thus where it settled, & from the residue I had
 in large pieces which they pestle, & pass through several sieves & wash. To make azures beautiful, they wash or soak
 the veins of the mountain or is distilled through an alembic par from mineral stones of azure or copper. Azure ashes
 if it is too coarse. Try it, therefore, on the fingernail or the oil palette. If it happens to be sandy,
 too coarse. Try it, therefore, on the fingernail or the oil palette . If it happens to be sandy, do not grind
 better yet, wash it in clear water & with a sponge remove the colored water after it starts to go to
 be easy to work with. Color of Damascus steel on knives Rub the steel with common aquafortis, mixing the said water
 said water with earth & next rub the whole with ashes or sand & the gold & the silver will touch
 with earth & next rub the whole with ashes or sand & the gold & the silver will touch as on
 the gold & the silver will touch as on a touchstone . For getting rid of the redness of eyes or
 small thin slices of raw mutton flesh, & with a head band , apply to the eyes at night. For coating with
 dries immediately & makes the gold appear very beautiful. For diamond points for engraving These are for tracing what you want to
 want to draw on stones & engraving, & when these points are fatty & cannot bite, one needs to rub them
 rub them diamond against diamond. One rubs them with diamond pumice stone powder . One needs also to unpolish on a lead wheel
 pumice stone powder. One needs also to unpolish on a lead wheel either the stone or the glass on which you want
 But when the polish is taken off, it bites easily. Polishing wheel of copper Before polishing your stone on it, it is necessary to
 necessary to degrease ter it well, rubbing it with a piece of leather en tour on the flesh side while spinning the wheel,
 leather en tour on the flesh side while spinning the wheel , if you have not worked on it in a
 it would crack. Put the figure to reheat in a pot in an oven or in a covered oven. It is
 Put the figure to reheat in a pot in an oven or in a covered oven. It is very soft, neat
 reheat in a pot in an oven or in a covered oven . It is very soft, neat & beautiful. You can
 have applied the white, you can burnish it with the tooth . But in order for it to be burnished, one
 it starts to dry, burnish from the back with the tooth . Plaster That from the mountains is greyer, and the
 must be cooked with a closed fire, such as a reverberatory furnace or barbers' ovens. And the most freshly cooked is the
 with a closed fire, such as a reverberatory furnace or barbers' ovens . And the most freshly cooked is the best to
 put to use. One needs to finely grind it on marble . After having prepared your hollow form from sulfur or
 your plaster with water, & separate it well with your finger , and if it makes pustules, throw on top more
 powder of the said plaster & grind it with the finger until + + it makes no more pustules. Then cast
 wax, & thus melted, cast like the others on a relief medal , & thus you will have a hollow form where
 form where you will be able to cast with plaster, pestled paper, or terre chimolée. Finely sieved brick is better, because
 too fatty. Cleaning yellow pearls Gently boil them in the goldsmiths’ bouteure then, with tripoli & a piece of leather, sprinkled on
 pearls Gently boil them in the goldsmiths’ bouteure then, with tripoli & a piece of leather, sprinkled on the flesh side
 the goldsmiths’ bouteure then, with tripoli & a piece of leather , sprinkled on the flesh side with the powder of
 piece of leather, sprinkled on the flesh side with the powder of the said tripoli , rub & polish the pearl. For whitening enilanroc Some
 wished to give it a layer of arsenic ground on marble . However, I experimented without this, and I put the
 and I put the aforesaid thing, enilanroc, in a small iron casket on the fire of my goldsmith’s forge with three or
 in a small iron casket on the fire of my goldsmith’s forge with three or four small half-burnt charcoals, and blew only
 have burst. Once all white, I passed it through my lead tinwheel , where I found it as hard as before, &
 the thing & put it inside. Then I reddened two glassworkers’ solders , & as they were red, I presented them one
 I wanted, uncovering up to the red base with a diamond point , and I polished it with small hog bristle brushes
 base with a diamond point, and I polished it with small hog bristle brushes and tripoli. I do not know if it would be
 and I polished it with small hog bristle brushes and tripoli . I do not know if it would be better
 white one that is sold as stone, when ground on marble , mixed with vermilion or lake or minium, makes a
 of stones Engraved tai stones are not polished on a copper wheel , but with brushes and tripoli. Yet stones cut in
 stones are not polished on a copper wheel, but with brushes and tripoli. Yet stones cut in facets and flat are
 not polished on a copper wheel, but with brushes and tripoli . Yet stones cut in facets and flat are polished
 cut in facets and flat are polished on the aforesaid wheel . Fine sieves of raw silk One makes tammy of
 in facets and flat are polished on the aforesaid wheel. Fine sieves of raw silk One makes tammy of raw silk on a loom, to
 raw silk One makes tammy of raw silk on a loom , to make fine & delicate sieves. And for that
 makes tammy of raw silk on a loom, to make fine & delicate sieves . And for that effect, you must not choose raw
 of paper & press it & spread it with the finger since, if it is mixed, it will be found variegated
 that if one puts the powder of it on a brazier in the chamber of some persons at night, they will
 calls a swine in Greek, y ïon, it will come. Candles Candlemakers never make good candle when the Autan wind blows
 y ïon, it will come. Candles Candlemakers never make good candle when the Autan wind blows because the candle always tends
 la cut it into the shape of sods with a ditch-spade , and thus place & arrange it. This one lasts
 on good & fertile land, after marking out with a measuring line the width & length of their foundations, drive into the
 ground in along the edges, on this side & that, long chpoles & or chevron beams to support boards between which they
 edges, on this side & that, long chpoles & or chevron beams to support boards between which they throw the earth, making
 & that, long chpoles & or chevron beams to support boards between which they throw the earth, making each layer one
 S.S.S with branches of heather or similar things, then with beaters of three different forms they tamp it & beat it.
 they tamp it & beat it. One is called the mallet , which has a triangular form like A, and with
 extremities and edges of the wall, which adhere to the boards , & is called. The other one is called the
 boards, & is called. The other one is called the bat , which is for flattening & beating the earth for
 Foundry casting One casts candlesticks and small works in a frame with sand. And after having imprinted the work, one sprinkles
 something very dry & arid & reheated well in the frame , because, if it were humid, like founders' sand, the
 and silver like damascening. Then one writes on it with silverpoint , and next erases it with a cuttlefish bone by
 on it with silverpoint, and next erases it with a cuttlefish bone by rubbing them. Letter, more legible One cuts the largest
 flat on the other, then one sets it with a little handle and one sets down the flat side on the letter.
 set your bronze medal on top & strike with a wooden mallet . Softening horn Those who acou mount Agnus Dei &
 them in hot water and next fashion them on a round or oval-shaped triblet . Ears When some defluxion occurs there, one needs to
 cannot be melted again because they only heat it in small forges , in which it only becomes red-hot. Alchemists undertake to
 not only brittle iron, such as the kind used for iron pots , but also soft iron such as d that of
 most difficult kind. And to this effect they make a furnace in this manner which has a width of one pan
 a half of a depth of two pans. And the blast-pipe , which is the barrel through marked A through which
 which is the barrel through marked A through which the bellows’ pipes enter, has to be placed in the middle of the
 be placed in the middle of the height of the furnace such that there is one pan of the mouth of
 that there is one pan of the mouth of the furnace above the blast-pipe & one pan underneath. Each pan of
 one pan of the mouth of the furnace above the blast-pipe & one pan underneath. Each pan of the mouth of
 one pan underneath. Each pan of the mouth of the square furnace contains one & a half quintal, & the pan of
 one & a half quintal, & the pan of the round furnace holds two quintals. The miners, to make the iron run,
 wonderfully ductile and flowing. It is also necessary that the blast-pipe enters through to the middle of the mouth of the
 enters through to the middle of the mouth of the furnace , which is a principal part of the secret because
 & the wall which makes up the belly of the furnace & by such means, it spreads equally everywhere & above,
 spreads equally everywhere & above, like the flame in a reverberatory furnace , & by such means heats much more; for if
 from running & melting. It is also necessary for the bellows to be driven by the leaping & running of water
 driven by the leaping & running of water as in forges , because in this manner, the bellows run with measure
 of water as in forges, because in this manner, the bellows run with measure & compass & with great speed, which
 Therefore one raises the wall as you see & the furnace on the surface of the ground at the edge of
 make a channel as with other founding, to put the molds of that which you want to cast & to do
 opening that you had made at the bottom of the furnace to make the melted substance run. You will be able
 each time and to do this, you will choose the biggest charcoal you can find & put a load of it at
 at the bottom, on the plane and surface of the furnace & with the bottom piling up as if to a
 up to the top of the wall Some make a mold of the caliber of the piece, & temper it, then
 this piece is very red, they beat it into the mold & round it off with a large file, considering these
 it into the mold & round it off with a large file , considering these balls to be stronger than the melted
 But first, it is necessary that you have reheated your furnace with with a little of the big charcoal, such that
 have reheated your furnace with with a little of the big charcoal , such that the bottom is red hot and then
 and then you will put there the aforesaid load of charcoals in the middle of which you will put your iron,
 this will be swallowed & at the bottom of the furnace , always put in as much again. And add three
 as much again. And add three or four shovels of new charcoal which should be of the biggest kind and remoistened, in
 be consumed too soon. And when you see that your furnace is full of substance, around two quintals, or less if
 not of it have that much, you will leave the charcoal to be consumed by itself. And when the charcoal is
 the charcoal to be consumed by itself. And when the charcoal is as it were reduced down to the level of
 as it were reduced down to the level of the furnace , you will be able to pour into molds &
 of the furnace, you will be able to pour into molds & iron or metal shells, which is even better because
 furnace, you will be able to pour into molds & iron or metal shells , which is even better because one iron attaches to
 other. And it is necessary that the inside of the mold be well ashed with tempered ashes, in order that it
 injection. For removing fine hair from the forehead Take a needle’s worth of fine silk & pass it tightly across the places with the hair
 which are not rotten & put them & fill a well closed and tin vessel with them & they will keep six months. Candles They
 tin vessel with them & they will keep six months. Candles They keep well in bran which makes them white &
 burnt il a little, the cotton droops & makes the candle drip. On the gunner The cannon fires at point blank
 farther than its usual range, one puts in a half ladle of cannon powder more. A cannon can fire 4xx or
 third part of a ball. Ain One gives it two ladles of cannon powder for its charge, & one & a
 of metal. The rosette for re-melting is more profitable than cauldrons , which turn entirely into filth. Old pieces are composed
 & one of metal. One recognizes this composition with a burin . For its substance is found to be brittle &
 found to be brittle & the particle taken from the burin is found to be mixed with yellow & white. Large
 all pieces up to the escutcheon. One charges with the ladle all pieces from the cannon to the piece of four
 of four quintals de char, and one gives them two ladles of cannon powder or one & a half of arquebus
 of arquebus powder. To smaller ones, one only gives one ladle , & those of one quintal are charged with a
 bastardes & field pieces. The falconet is loaded with a ladle , and one commonly gives it only one ladle. There
 with a ladle, and one commonly gives it only one ladle . There are also other falconets weighing three quintals, and
 a quarter of powder. It is loaded either with a ladle , but more commonly with a charge. At the breech,
 one shoots a metal ball, one over-charges by a quarter ladle because if a cannon ball weighs 40 lb, the metal
 orgues. See the 4th leaf following, marked Mathematical figures without ruler and compass You know how to draw a circle correctly
 the 4th leaf following, marked Mathematical figures without ruler and compass You know how to draw a circle correctly with the
 You know how to draw a circle correctly with the quill & or else with the nail of your right thumb
 circle correctly with the quill & or else with the nail of your right thumb & the bent big finger. If you do not have
 with the nail of your right thumb & the bent big finger . If you do not have a ruler, fold paper
 the bent big finger. If you do not have a ruler , fold paper in two five or six times to
 to draw a column, arch, oval, escutcheon correctly without a compass , fold your paper such that the fold e gives
 put it down on your paper & rub with a tooth the back of the card. Clysters One used to give
 of the card. Clysters One used to give them with leather sleeves or bags , which for the best result is must be of
 other. And then one would start to fold back the sleeve on one side & one would continue to fold it
 this manner takes longer & is less convenient than the syringe which has been discovered since, with which a man alone
 grind it again quite finely and pass it through a hair sieve quite finely. This done, it is necessary to mix the
 give them a little color. Next, you need to have molds , and it is necessary that they be earthenware, in
 a good fire, you will clean the place in the hearth where you want to put your millas, and then you
 to put your millas, and then you will take your molds and grease them quite heavily in order that the dough
 is cooked. Having done that, you will put your said molds on the well-cleaned place in the hearth and will put
 put your said molds on the well-cleaned place in the hearth and will put a little flour at the bottom and
 with the aforementioned dough. Next you will cover the said molds with lids which will be made like the molds, but
 aforementioned dough. Next you will cover the said molds with lids which will be made like the molds, but it is
 said molds with lids which will be made like the molds , but it is necessary that they be larger and
 that, you will put a little hay on the said lids and plenty of embers, and make a good charcoal fire
 a little hay on the said lids and plenty of embers , and make a good charcoal fire all around. That
 a trial of it, having poured foaming wine in a glass , squeeze orange juice on the wine foam, which proceeds
 will immediately disappear. Also, if you squeeze juice against a candle it will burn all the brighter. Skirret root They want
 As for small cannons which are not loaded with a ladle , one charges them with powder up to the escutcheon,
 raise a false alarm in order that the besieged throw torches & artificial fire into the moats or around the breach,
 false alarm in order that the besieged throw torches & artificial fire into the moats or around the breach, at which the
 which the gunner aims. Sometimes, by using the reflection of mirrors or flasks full of water, the assailants light up the
 gunner aims. Sometimes, by using the reflection of mirrors or flasks full of water, the assailants light up the breach. The
 light up the breach. The method you know, with a quadrant & plumb line, is very good. Others nail two or
 the breach. The method you know, with a quadrant & plumb line , is very good. Others nail two or three rows
 low, when you fire during the day, you place a ruler fixed well in the ground, which comes just to touch
 cannon as the other. And underneath they place the above-mentioned ruler . Then when they want to fire at night, they
 at night, they push their cannon straight toward the above-mentioned ruler & make it so that the edge of the mouth
 of the mouth rests on the end of the aforesaid ruler . Next, they measure with a ruler or similar thing
 end of the aforesaid ruler. Next, they measure with a ruler or similar thing cut to measure, from one pole to
 who is often a founder, wedges & thoroughly rivets the nail that the enemies placed, and with a trepan makes at
 rivets the nail that the enemies placed, and with a trepan makes at the side another touch-hole next to the one
 with which the piece is spiked, you will make a thread in the second touch-hole & place a screw in it
 make a thread in the second touch-hole & place a screw in it quite perfectly which will never come undone. M
 great damage. And to make them worse, one puts coarsely pestling pestled glass either in the molds or in the crucible,
 damage. And to make them worse, one puts coarsely pestling pestled glass either in the molds or in the crucible, when
 worse, one puts coarsely pestling pestled glass either in the molds or in the crucible, when one wants to cast them;
 pestling pestled glass either in the molds or in the crucible , when one wants to cast them; this worsens the
 the arquebus which has a hole through which one passes iron pegs from under the board. Then, when one wants to aim
 of powder, more than a cannon, namely by two big ladles . Its ball weighs 56 lb. One needs thirty horses
 you see. To place it, one needs three or four iron pegs one pan long & as thick as a finger which
 as a finger which should have their point like a wimble gimlet, & the entire leg as a screw, like an
 a finger which should have their point like a wimble gimlet , & the entire leg as a screw, like an
 like a wimble gimlet, & the entire leg as a screw , like an auger, & a ring on the other
 gimlet, & the entire leg as a screw, like an auger , & a ring on the other end to turn
 ring on the other end to turn them with a short stick which has play within the ring. And the pegs are
 short stick which has play within the ring. And the pegs are placed in the door but not straight but for
 quite large. In this way, the firing petard pushes the pegs along & across into the door & makes more of
 way that it is like a gut through lwhich a stick as thick as a finger can pass. Fill it completely
 up. One makes two large iron rings & with a bar or two, four men carry it. They are also used
 one needs to join to the said sausage a long string or cord which should be two times longer than the
 to join to the said sausage a long string or cord which should be two times longer than the sausage, &
 next, the one outside the ditch needs to pull the thread & cord that is joined to the sausage until it
 one outside the ditch needs to pull the thread & cord that is joined to the sausage until it is moderately
 the ditch, one would need to support the sausage with forks . Then, the one who holds the end of the
 necessary that they be full of powder mixed with coarsely pestled glass. And for a quarter lb of powder, one needs
 of one finger. You will fill it with good powder, pestled in a mortar & lightly mixed with good eau-de-vie or
 You will fill it with good powder, pestled in a mortar & lightly mixed with good eau-de-vie or strong vinegar which
 fill the gabions with some earth by means of their shovels . And while one does this, one raises some false
 or trenches. And there one goes to get powder in bags or frails. And each piece has its own frail for
 And there one goes to get powder in bags or frails . And each piece has its own frail for loading
 in bags or frails. And each piece has its own frail for loading three or four times. Then, when the cannon
 between two gabions. Then a gunner loads it with a ladle , & with the rammer which is at len the
 a gunner loads it with a ladle, & with the rammer which is at len the other end of the ladle,
 rammer which is at len the other end of the ladle , two men ram the powder as much as they
 it as before & one rams a little. Some put wooden bungs but this runs the risk of making the piece burst.
 has to fire many cannon shots, one would need many bungs , which would cost much to carry. Once the cannon
 cannon is in front, the gunner mounts it with the wedges which are at the back, taking the sight on each
 less, on each side, always taking their measurements with the compass from the straight line which they make in the middle
 straight line which they make in the middle of the model of paper or otherwise. And this reduction amounts to seven or eight
 sixteen channels or notches in which you will slot sixteen blades quite evenly, with in order that all together they cut
 In order to avoid this, it is necessary that the borer should pass evenly from the breech to the mouth, &
 This is the true measure of the caliber, but the borer always takes away a little more. Petard They are made
 & becoming larger toward the muzzle. It is necessary to pestle the powder thoroughly & put on top of it either
 cork or better still a fitted plate of wax thoroughly pestled on top, for it seals precisely & makes for greater
 grais, & they turn & polish around them on the wheel . They melt their tin in an dest iron pot
 on the wheel. They melt their tin in an dest iron pot on a charcoal fire, and with an iron spoon that
 dest iron pot on a charcoal fire, and with an iron spoon that holds almost a sufficient quantity for a platter, they
 sufficient quantity for a platter, they cast leu in their cold molds , which they keep joined & tight between their knees.
 tight between their knees. And soon after, they open the molds so that they do not heat up, & having taken
 the female side, & which breaks easily. Then, with a cloth which soaks in water, which they always have beside them,
 edge, so that it comes out better, and rub the female mold with it. + When the tin is fine, one adds
 & rendered like jelly. Then grind it quite hard on marble & next take rye flour, which is better than wheat
 bread dough that one is ready to put in the oven . This is recognized when it can stretch enough without
 rub the hollow form au u with oil, with a brush , in order that the oil penetrates everywhere to make
 tilting, and gather the plaster & grind it finely on marble , & place it in some kind of clean lead
 on marble, & place it in some kind of clean lead vessel , so that no dust & dirt falls into it,
 tempered with very clear strong glue & passed through a linen cloth . Extraction of oils Apothecaries say that anything which does
 Apothecaries say that anything which does not adhere to the mortar while pestling is oleaginous. Dragon’s blood Take a well chosen
 that anything which does not adhere to the mortar while pestling is oleaginous. Dragon’s blood Take a well chosen tear of
 it which shows off its transparent red. And in a glass bottle put the best eau-de-vie you can find, in sufficient quantity.
 want to use it, make a small hole in the stopper of the bottle & pour a little & stop it again each time,
 for small mirrors in Nuremberg. Pewterer They also make their molds from metal which lasts longer & molds more cleanly than
 & smooth. But this is for the rich because a mold costs fifteen or sixteen frans. They are mainly made of
 salt cellars & similar things which are fashioned. For pints, molds are made with white clay earth mixed with horse dung
 would not be able to release as well from the grais mold as from the earth, which is soft. One makes the
 earth, which is soft. One makes the noyau of the mold of the said pints in grais. In metal molds, one
 of the mold of the said pints in grais. In metal molds , one makes vents and casts all at once, which
 made right in the middle of the cast, & in grais molds . The plate can be hammered mar to make it
 the cast, & in grais molds. The plate can be hammered mar to make it more vendable. But it will not
 & plates, they have notches on the spoke of their iron wheels . And when they want to apply any dish or
 plate, they loosen & undo with the strike of a hammer the iron wedges that slide along the spokes of the
 the iron wedges that slide along the spokes of the wheel . And, when they are at the notch and points
 need, they tighten the said wedges, wedging them with the hammer . When their plates or dishes have been cast, soldered
 if needed, & purged of surrounding flashing with the hot soldering iron & then with a large file, they adapt it on
 with the hot soldering iron & then with a large file , they adapt it on the wheel; & first of
 then with a large file, they adapt it on the wheel ; & first of all they wrap their desgrusoue desgrusouer
 on the wheel; & first of all they wrap their desgrusoue desgrusouer with a rope, as thick rope as the little
 the wheel; & first of all they wrap their desgrusoue desgrusouer with a rope, as thick rope as the little finger,
 first of all they wrap their desgrusoue desgrusouer with a rope , as thick rope as the little finger, & lean
 they wrap their desgrusoue desgrusouer with a rope, as thick rope as the little finger, & lean it firmly on the
 as the little finger, & lean it firmly on the crossbar to secure it well. And while someone else promptly turns
 secure it well. And while someone else promptly turns the wheel , they guide the sharp edge of the esgrusouer by
 turns the wheel, they guide the sharp edge of the esgrusouer by hand s toward the edge of the round hollow,
 wheel, they guide the sharp edge of the esgrusouer by hand s toward the edge of the round hollow, & gently
 guide it to the center of the circle. And this desgrusouer is for removing the first rough & lumpy skins of
 the work. And next they even it out with ae cutting iron called a plane, the sharp edge of which they rub
 they even it out with ae cutting iron called a plane , the sharp edge of which they rub with a
 the sharp edge of which they rub with a little putty on leather nailed onto a piece of wood having, and
 edge of which they rub with a little putty on leather nailed onto a piece of wood having, and this in such a way that the flesh
 on the outside, for if the sharp edge of this plane was not thus rubbed & burnished, it would not polish
 they repair the work for the second time with this plane as they did with the esgrusouer. Then, with a knife
 second time with this plane as they did with the esgrusouer . Then, with a knife or another sharp iron, they
 plane as they did with the esgrusouer. Then, with a knife or another sharp iron, they scrape the edges of the
 did with the esgrusouer. Then, with a knife or another sharp iron , they scrape the edges of the platters or plates
 so that they are not found sharp when handled Their hammers must be quite even & polished, and if by chance
 other use, has damaged them, they first polish them with emery stone powder , then they finish burnishing & smoothing with the putty.
 stone powder, then they finish burnishing & smoothing with the putty . Otherwise they would not strike neatly. It is also
 neatly. It is also necessary that the surface of the anvils be the same. New vine Having taken well, if you
 its residue if you distil the aforesaid things through a filter . Varnish resistant to water Flanders varnish, made with turpentine
 made from sugar One does not paint them with a paintbrush like other s things with moistened color, because the sugar
 would melt. But one rubs them with color with the finger . Painter Scribes achieve darkening of lake & other colors
 to be done in oil. But humidity corrupts all this. Brushes Take those that have been used a little by white-limers,
 they take the coarsest azur d’esmail & grind it on shale , & mix in two or three rosary beads’ worth
 bodies must be very evenly beaten & driven with the hammer . Morions from Milan are all in one piece &
 letters, or that which they want to gild, with a paintbrush , and immediately after layer the gold, but they never
 six lb. Put in # Gold, silver, copper, latten, iron. Knife for cutting the nose or a finger This is a
 for cutting the nose or a finger This is a well-furbished knife , nailed through the middle in such a way that
 the nose or a finger This is a well-furbished knife, nailed through the middle in such a way that it easily
 as readily as the side B, is hidden inside its handle marked C. The two tenons you see at the tip
 The two tenons you see at the tip of the knife are for locking it on one side or the other
 locking it on one side or the other against a nail which is at the butt of the said handle, in
 a nail which is at the butt of the said handle , in order that, when one wants to press hard
 to cut it, it does not come out from the handle . You may allow the side marked B to cut
 needs to be as thick as the back of a knife in order that it cannot cause pain. And you will
 pain. And you will only show the part of the knife which is not notched, for the side with the notch
 with the notch needs to be mar hidden inside the handle . And when you want to cut the nose or
 cut the nose or a finger, pretend to sharpen your knife on the thigh and, while while doing this, turn the
 on the thigh and, while while doing this, turn the knife deftly. & the part with the notch, which you will
 & not at his hands. X For relighting an extinguished candle between your hands without blowing X Take a small stick
 candle between your hands without blowing X Take a small stick of well dried between wicker and cut from it a small piece like a toothpick,
 wicker and cut from it a small piece like a toothpick , & la m put one end between your index
 fingers well joined, and pass them deftly around the lit candle as if you wanted to cover it with them, &
 your hands jo thus clasped, & immediately put out the candle . And then put your hands around it again as
 smoke that you are holding with your two palms the candle will light. Then immediately extinguish your wicker & secretly cast
 making it seem that to someone that he has a piece of silver on his forehead Take a token or piece of silver
 has a piece of silver on his forehead Take a token or piece of silver and wet it and make it
 piece of silver on his forehead Take a token or piece of silver and wet it and make it hold against your forehead.
 issue from someone’s forehead or from a wall Take a funnel or funnel of fer blanc which is double-walled in the
 someone’s forehead or from a wall Take a funnel or funnel of fer blanc which is double-walled in the body d but not in
 spout the with your little finger, make sure that the funnel is well filled in order that the wine can enter
 will be retained between the double walls. Then with a bodkin rounded at the tip & that goes into its handle , you make it seem as if you pierce the
 if you pierce the forehead of someone who holds a glass in his hand, and while you pierce, you cover what
 you pierce, you cover what you are doing with the funnel that you hold close to # # his forehead. Then
 B, & fall through the tip marked C into the glass . But you must make the fellow bend his head
 a chamber X Make him put his arm around a bedpost or something similar, & with the same arm, let him
 saying spur, for that is your wager. For making a candlestick hold to the wall without making a hole in it
 it to the wall. X How not to break a glass with a log or a large stick X You will
 wall. X How not to break a glass with a log or a large stick X You will cut from it
 not to break a glass with a log or a large stick X You will cut from it a small piece as
 cut from it a small piece as thick as a toothpick , & thus you will give him something from a
 toothpick, & thus you will give him something from a log or a large stick with which he will not be
 you will give him something from a log or a large stick with which he will not be able to break the
 with which he will not be able to break the glass . Writing cunningly Cut some long strips of fine parchment
 caetera, then have them sewn inside the hem of a shirt of rough cloth , like that of a messenger, who, if you want
 will know nothing of it. For melting or transmuting a jewel put inside a box Take a box of boxwood banded
 it. For melting or transmuting a jewel put inside a box Take a box of boxwood banded with rings, as you
 or transmuting a jewel put inside a box Take a box of boxwood banded with rings , as you see, into which will easily fit another
 rings, as you see, into which will easily fit another small box , like that which you see marked B, and make
 that there is some distance. Also, that which enters the large box must be smooth, but the rim must be made with
 it appears as if they are one and the same box . You must also have a round leather cover of
 and the same box. You must also have a round leather cover of the same length as the box , as you see marked C, which fits let easily
 a round leather cover of the same length as the box , as you see marked C, which fits let easily
 marked C, which fits let easily & surrounds the said boxes thus placed one within the other. But before you do
 your trick, you must put at the bottom of the larger box powdered gold or silver, or mercury amalgamated with silver, and
 silver, or mercury amalgamated with silver, and then place the little box marked B on top. Next, holding the box with your
 the little box marked B on top. Next, holding the box with your index finger on top, you present it, and
 you present it, and seeing only the bottom of the smaller box marked B, one places a jewel or something similar in
 bottom of the smaller box marked B, one places a jewel or something similar in it. This being done, placing the
 or something similar in it. This being done, placing the box on the table, you cover it with the leather box,
 in it. This being done, placing the box on the table , you cover it with the leather box, and making
 the box on the table, you cover it with the leather box , and making the requisite gestures, you will remove the
 box, and making the requisite gestures, you will remove the leather box , & without showing the inside, will put it on
 & without showing the inside, will put it on the table & let it be recognized that the jewel is in
 on the table & let it be recognized that the jewel is in the placed in the bottom of the small
 jewel is in the placed in the bottom of the small box marked B. Then you will gently place the leather box
 small box marked B. Then you will gently place the leather box back, & after saying inhonorificabilitidinitadtudinibus, you will take the top
 after saying inhonorificabilitidinitadtudinibus, you will take the top of the leather box with two fingers, and with the clasping it more firmly
 at the same time you d will lift pe the smaller box that is inside & which contains the jewel, & you
 the smaller box that is inside & which contains the jewel , & you will gently put both on the table,
 the jewel, & you will gently put both on the table , then you will pour the powder or amalgam that
 powder or amalgam that is at the bottom of the large box , then replace the leather box with the box inside
 at the bottom of the large box, then replace the leather box with the box inside it, as it was at the
 it, as it was at the start. Then, removing the leather box without removing the smaller one, you will show the jewel
 box without removing the smaller one, you will show the jewel at the bottom which has returned to its previous state,
 state, holding your index finger on the rim of the box so that it does not slip. For telling someone that
 he does not know, and neither do you Take a string or a small stick and take the measurement from the
 know, and neither do you Take a string or a small stick and take the measurement from the tip of his ear
 did not know, and neither did he. For supporting a bucket of water on the tips of three knives laid down
 supporting a bucket of water on the tips of three knives laid down without touching the ground According to the strength
 without touching the ground According to the strength of your knives, either kitchen or table , you will make them support a large weight on
 ground. You can easily adapt this to another use with pikes, with joists , or to promptly make a tripod in a camp
 to promptly make a tripod in a camp with three halberd points . If the edge of the knife marked A faces
 camp with three halberd points. If the edge of the knife marked A faces from right to left, the butts of
 handles will rise, but if the edge of the same knife faces from left to right, the tips will rise. For
 come out of a burrow Take some embers in a pot , & having put sulfur on top, put it in
 danger in this. See Mathiol. For transmuting grain from one vessel to another Take two small wooden bushels of the same
 For transmuting grain from one vessel to another Take two small wooden bushels of the same size, which should be hollow on the
 exterior by about the width of the back of a knife or more. One of these will remain empty, & on
 will seem to be filled with it. Take also a wooden bell into which you will place as much grain as can
 of the bushels, and over the top put a simple piece of leather that fits tightly inside the bell. Put all into a
 a simple piece of leather that fits tightly inside the bell . Put all into a bag or a napkin or
 that fits tightly inside the bell. Put all into a bag or a napkin or a folded handkerchief, if you do
 inside the bell. Put all into a bag or a napkin or a folded handkerchief, if you do not want to
 Put all into a bag or a napkin or a folded handkerchief , if you do not want to use a conjuror’s
 folded handkerchief, if you do not want to use a conjuror’s pouch . First show the empty bushel, then in front of
 want to use a conjuror’s pouch. First show the empty bushel , then in front of the audience fill it with
 fill it with grain, then put it back in the napkin . Next, leave that one there & take the other
 the first one, filled with grain. Put it under a hat & place the bell gently on the table for the
 with grain. Put it under a hat & place the bell gently on the table for the first time. And if
 under a hat & place the bell gently on the table for the first time. And if you like, promptly &
 without stopping, show the bottom which will be covered with white leather of the color of the wood . Then pretending to show the bushel that is under
 the color of the wood. Then pretending to show the bushel that is under the hat, you will turn it deftly
 Then pretending to show the bushel that is under the hat , you will turn it deftly to the side that
 will command that by invisibilium the grain pass into the bell , which you will have tapped shortly before on the
 bell, which you will have tapped shortly before on the table a little strongly, & the grain will fall to the
 the grain will fall to the bottom & cover the piece of leather . Then lift the hat; the bushel semb will be
 bottom & cover the piece of leather. Then lift the hat ; the bushel semb will be found empty and the
 cover the piece of leather. Then lift the hat; the bushel semb will be found empty and the bell full of
 hat; the bushel semb will be found empty and the bell full of grain, which you will scrape deftly along with
 of grain, which you will scrape deftly along with the piece of leather so that it cannot be seen, & you will very
 you will very subtly with conceit cast it into the bag or pouch. For transmuting a ball into a thimble, cunning
 very subtly with conceit cast it into the bag or pouch . For transmuting a ball into a thimble, cunning of
 cast it into the bag or pouch. For transmuting a ball into a thimble, cunning of leather Make a small sheath
 the bag or pouch. For transmuting a ball into a thimble , cunning of leather Make a small sheath of plain
 a ball into a thimble, cunning of leather Make a small sheath of plain leather, such as cow or morocco , somewhat thick, as tall as three fingers, sewn like
 as large as a double liard. Take one two similar boxwood balls , & let one be hollow & open with a
 a round hole on one side only so that the thimble can fit inside. Thus, when you want to perform, you
 Thus, when you want to perform, you will place your leather sheath on the table with the ball that is not hollow.
 to perform, you will place your leather sheath on the table with the ball that is not hollow. Pass a stick
 will place your leather sheath on the table with the ball that is not hollow. Pass a stick inside the leather
 table with the ball that is not hollow. Pass a stick inside the leather sheath to show that there is nothing
 ball that is not hollow. Pass a stick inside the leather sheath to show that there is nothing there, also show the
 show that there is nothing there, also show the full ball , and hold the one which is hollow & has
 and hold the one which is hollow & has the thimble inside it by your little finger & ring finger, and
 is hollow & has the thimble inside it by your little finger & ring finger, and do this with your right hand
 has the thimble inside it by your little finger & ring finger , and do this with your right hand with which
 little finger & ring finger, and do this with your right hand with which you are holding the stick. Next, you take
 with your right hand with which you are holding the stick . Next, you take your leather sheath & place it
 which you are holding the stick. Next, you take your leather sheath & place it over the hollow ball which is in
 take your leather sheath & place it over the hollow ball which is in your fingers, & making it seem as
 putting some oribus powder over it, you put back the leather mold that contains the ball with the thimble on the table,
 it, you put back the leather mold that contains the ball with the thimble on the table, then you take the
 back the leather mold that contains the ball with the thimble on the table, then you take the round & solid
 mold that contains the ball with the thimble on the table , then you take the round & solid ball remaining
 on the table, then you take the round & solid ball remaining on the table, and command it to enter from
 you take the round & solid ball remaining on the table , and command it to enter from under the table
 the table, and command it to enter from under the table into the leather sheath. Then, when lifting the leather, the
 command it to enter from under the table into the leather sheath . Then, when lifting the leather, the ball seems to
 into the leather sheath. Then, when lifting the leather, the ball seems to be the same, although it is the hollow
 & command it to become invisible. And then, lifting the sheath while pressing it, you will remove it & the ball
 sheath while pressing it, you will remove it & the ball along with it; & l putting it aside with the
 along with it; & l putting it aside with the sheath , & a in its place will be found a
 sheath, & a in its place will be found a thimble for the ladies whose bottom hurts, that is to say,
 does not lose, or only slightly, its calamine in an four à vent when it is melted in a crucible, nor in a
 an four à vent when it is melted in a crucible , nor in a wood furnace, but it does in
 when it is melted in a crucible, nor in a wood furnace , but it does in a bellows furnace because bellows
 nor in a wood furnace, but it does in a bellows furnace because bellows give violent fire. Four à vent It is
 wood furnace, but it does in a bellows furnace because bellows give violent fire. Four à vent It is necessary that
 does in a bellows furnace because bellows give violent fire. Four à vent It is necessary that it be narrower at the mouth
 than at the bottom. And it is enough that the crucible be able to enter in it, & that there be
 that there be space to remove & take it with pincers . Glassworkers’ glass One says that in Lorraine & in
 lengthwise. Then, having set this long, cleft bubble on a stone or large plate that is in the furnace, a little
 set this long, cleft bubble on a stone or large plate that is in the furnace, a little less hot than
 on a stone or large plate that is in the furnace , a little less hot than for the melt, it
 addition to this, they flatten it with a long & thick round iron rod , then they remove it to the annealing furnace. It
 thick round iron rod, then they remove it to the annealing furnace . It is made in the same way in England
 of Lorraine. For plate glass can be melted with a candle & not that from Lorraine. That of plate is blown
 glass can be cleft again with the light of a candle by wetting, but not as precisely as with the hot
 candle by wetting, but not as precisely as with the hot iron . Founder The metal whitens the more it is melted,
 because it is soft, it can be fixed with a hammer . Medicine for the stomach which heats it and unstops
 Once made, one ought not to keep them in any case of iron or metal , for this stains them, but in some box of
 this stains them, but in some box of For keeping candles from dripping and making them white Having made them, put
 and making them white Having made them, put into the mold fresh water well beaten with bran, which should not at
 flour, so that the water becomes white. And dip your candles in that, then leave them to dry. And do thus
 small e holes, two fingers by two fingers, with a stake & put in each two or three seeds. Next, take
 bright or dark. Yellow Amber It is cut with a file , then one passes a certain pulverized salt over it,
 is cut with a file, then one passes a certain pulverized salt over it, which an Englishman called desramonet. But I suppose
 a certain pulverized salt over it, which an Englishman called desramonet . But I suppose that this was pulverized pumice stone,
 an Englishman called desramonet. But I suppose that this was pulverized pumice stone , for it had the harshness of arène. And with
 it had the harshness of arène. And with a taut cord , he polished his amber, then passed tripoli from Bretagne
 with a taut cord, he polished his amber, then passed tripoli from Bretagne on it with the finger, others with a piece of
 amber, then passed tripoli from Bretagne on it with the finger , others with a piece of leather or a cane.
 on it with the finger, others with a piece of leather or a cane. Amber loses its color if an unhealthy
 the finger, others with a piece of leather or a cane . Amber loses its color if an unhealthy person wears
 very clear esmail azuré melted entirely on the sapphire. The file bites on it as on the beryl. Saffron It is
 it is possible. And having cut it in squares with emery , they cut it in bevel & polish it. And
 crust. This is why those who cut it with the file or on the wheel do not remove, if it is
 those who cut it with the file or on the wheel do not remove, if it is possible, this crust. But
 crust. But they only polish it, rubbing it with a willow stick or other soft wood dipped into water & dusted with
 polish it, rubbing it with a willow stick or other soft wood dipped into water & dusted with tripoli of Brittany, and
 or other soft wood dipped into water & dusted with tripoli of Brittany , and it takes a beautiful polish. If it is
 sal ammoniac. & some cut amber in facets on a wheel of soft wood with putty instead of emery, & jet also. The salt
 amber in facets on a wheel of soft wood with putty instead of emery, & jet also. The salt called by
 on a wheel of soft wood with putty instead of emery , & jet also. The salt called by the English
 with lye of lime. Against nose bleed and for dyeing Pestle some sorrel or lapathum acutum of the sort that is
 saltpeter, a red enamel vitrifies at the bottom of the crucible . I do not know if the copper mixed in
 the cultivation of pastel woad, one ploughs the soil with shovels of iron , as gardeners do. Next, one harrows it with rakes,
 of iron, as gardeners do. Next, one harrows it with rakes , & breaks it up finely as for sowing cooking
 as if golden or silver. One assays it in the dyers’ vat , and to fill a vat with it, one needs
 assays it in the dyers’ vat, and to fill a vat with it, one needs six balls of it. In this,
 you with noir à huile or noir d’escaille with the paintbrush ; if you want to paint with colors in the
 fig tree. Then moisten your printed history between two wet linen cloths , and lay it down on the gilt glass. Then
 lay it down on the gilt glass. Then with a pin mounted on the end of a small stick, follow the
 with a pin mounted on the end of a small stick , follow the lines of your history as if you
 that which needs to be blank with a quite pointy steel awl , & neatly follow once more the lines & accomplish
 pounds of substance of aquafortis four which are in the retort four ounces of common water in the receptacle, which is
 in the retort four ounces of common water in the receptacle , which is better than putting it into the retort.
 the receptacle, which is better than putting it into the retort . One de-phlegms & calcines alum in order that the
 Latten and calamine Founders do not melt latten in a à vent bellows furnace but in crucibles, for in a à vent bellows furnace
 melt latten in a à vent bellows furnace but in crucibles , for in a à vent bellows furnace & amid
 à vent bellows furnace but in crucibles, for in a à vent bellows furnace & amid the charcoals, the calamine would go away. A
 holds in the fire for a long time but the cendrée separates it. Aquafortis If your retort is well luted, you
 long time but the cendrée separates it. Aquafortis If your retort is well luted, you ought not to surround it with
 the cendrée separates it. Aquafortis If your retort is well luted , you ought not to surround it with ashes, which
 is well luted, you ought not to surround it with ashes , which would only get in the way of chasing
 which should be lit elsewhere beforehand, as those in the furnace should be, in order that they do not crackle &
 Put the said lit charcoals around the body of the retort , & not close to the neck, which does not
 which does not need to be heated as vigorously. The top grate , where you set your retort, is sufficiently far, one
 heated as vigorously. The top grate, where you set your retort , is sufficiently far, one dour or half a foot,
 sufficiently far, one dour or half a foot, from the bottom grate where the charcoal is placed, for by doing this not
 leave it to dry, then turn it to powder, then sift it to render it fine & purged of gravel, which
 you can give it bond with brick thoroughly ground on marble , or plaster or calcined alabaster or something similar, or
 burned aspalte throughout. If you grind it quite finely on porphyry , it s acquires hold & then you can burn
 better than that common delicate kind that falls under the anvil in the forge, because it imitates niello. To the said
 common delicate kind that falls under the anvil in the forge , because it imitates niello. To the said black, described
 mix soaked dried saffron with a little massicot. Founder The mold of earth is reheated until, sometimes, it is as if red, for
 three or four pieces of paper on, & with a stick you even & round like a pestle, you will roll
 & with a stick you even & round like a pestle , you will roll it as if you wanted to
 the paper, which will help you lift it off the mold . Thus you will imprint better than if you were
 casting in plaster Melt some wax, & with a large brush coat the relief of which you want to have the
 which you will follow again & scratch with d a piece of glass or a penknife. Canvas for painting in oil without breaking
 & scratch with d a piece of glass or a penknife . Canvas for painting in oil without breaking In order
 casting The main thing is to grind it well on marble , & that it be impalpable & mixed with a
 little mastic. And in the evening put it into a vessel , all pestled well together, without fire, which would turn
 And in the evening put it into a vessel, all pestled well together, without fire, which would turn it yellow. Then
 without fire, which would turn it yellow. Then with a paintbrush , it is dry immediately. Pour the oil, which will
 Purple ℞ stagno dolce, meza onça, farlo fondere in un cochiaro . Depoi fonduto, gectarly dentro una ℥ de ☿, mesedar
 matteriali sopradetti. Dapoi metter tutto insieme dentro un a pignatta sublimatorio di vetro , tenerlo sopra picciol fuoco una hora & una hora
 un poco di vernice. Essendo secco, datte a secco con ditto la purpurina dove vorrette. Tanto più ne darette, sarà piu
 Once dry, grate minium from England on top with a paintbrush or a finger. The said grated minium embellishes lead medals.
 minium from England on top with a paintbrush or a finger . The said grated minium embellishes lead medals. Varied and
 It is said that pulverized talc blown into with a lamp renders them thus. Arquebusier For firing your arquebus precisely, it
 the distance, & let thee piece be made with a cutting-punch precisely cut at according to the caliber of the arquebus.
 they clean with lye because they sort them with the mouth & separate out short & broken ones. They do not
 out short & broken ones. They do not make the reed longer than the sieve, & the reed is round. They
 reed is round. They attach to both edges of the reed the hair, either black or white, according to the work
 under as for making any other fabric. And passing a small flat stick of ii or three fingers wide between, next they pass
 & dittany, & good vinegar, put the whole in a glass bottle , leave it half-open & well strapped, and put it
 in time of need you will pour some on a flaming red tile & receive the vapor of it & also fumigate your
 them in quarters in olive oil, the whole in a vial glass bottle which you will place in a bain marie
 in quarters in olive oil, the whole in a vial glass bottle which you will place in a bain marie for two
 of wax as the two together, and mix it with pestled brick for greater strength. Others, white chalk or white stone
 brick for greater strength. Others, white chalk or white stone pestled & pulverized & sieved. Loading an arquebus with hail shot
 to make your cartridge long, wrap the paper around the baton B & at the end, where the point F will
 order to make the bottom more uniform, put it into pipe A, then put in the baton B and, through the
 uniform, put it into pipe A, then put in the baton B and, through the other end of the pipe, which
 the baton B and, through the other end of the pipe , which is marked G, put the baton C &
 end of the pipe, which is marked G, put the baton C & beat so as to tamp & press the
 pieces of shot or tears into it. Then, with a cutting-punch , marked E, which should be of the same caliber
 and push it onto the pieces of shot with the baton B. Next, more pieces of shot, 3 or 4, then
 give to your arquebus, all of which should have a screw on the end that fits in the nut of the
 have a screw on the end that fits in the nut of the ramrod of the said arquebus. Thus, when you
 on the end that fits in the nut of the ramrod of the said arquebus. Thus, when you have put the
 put the powder in the charge, which is in the nut , hold the ramrod upright. And raising your arquebus up,
 in the charge, which is in the nut, hold the ramrod upright. And raising your arquebus up, insert the said ramrod
 ramrod upright. And raising your arquebus up, insert the said ramrod until the charge is at the bottom of the arquebus,
 arquebus, the mouth of the barrel up, and remove the little ramrod . Thus your powder will be entirely in the breech
 cannon Take off the breech and place it on an smooth & well-leveled table and pass through the inside a very smooth string without
 smooth & well-leveled table and pass through the inside a very smooth string without knots , on each end of which there should be a
 knots, on each end of which there should be a plumb hanging from each side. Then look into the barrel along
 from each side. Then look into the barrel along the string , and if it does not touch equally all over,
 place where it does not touch & hit with a hammer on the outside on that side & in the same
 as much clove oil as can be held in a walnut shell , and as much rose honey, & seven or eight
 all together. And after having cleaned the teeth with a small burin , touch them lightly with a end little cotton dipped
 Oil of sulfur If the scribe wants to clean his quill promptly of the thickness of the ink which has dried
 tanned work on black leather shoes, he can dip a writing quill in oil of sulfur and paint with it what he
 disappear by any effort. Urb. Erasing a letter Dip a writing quill in fresh & good oil of sulfur & thus retrace
 sulfur & thus retrace all the letters with the dipped quill & they will disappear on parchment. Urb. Writing without ink
 immediately it will turn black; then by rubbing with a sponge , the letter will be cut because it will be
 be burned. Urb. Or retrace the letter with a dry quill of. Making someone’s boots burn Rub with the aforesaid oil,
 1 ℥, alum half an ℥. Make water with the retort , and as soon as you touch the tooth, the
 & take one drop or two of it with a spoonful of broth. The root of consolida maior, pestled & put
 with a spoonful of broth. The root of consolida maior, pestled & put between pieces cuts in a piece of beef,
 & run & goes up in smoke, & keeps the mold from corrupting. And if you want to cast fire pieces,
 than latten, in order that it be less breakable. The crucibles for melting metal should be better than those for glassmakers, as glass is
 breakable. The crucibles for melting metal should be better than those for glassmakers , as glass is not as heavy as metal. And
 heavy as metal. And in this instance, one needs to lute the crucibles with earth and pestled glass. Crucibles Those that
 metal. And in this instance, one needs to lute the crucibles with earth and pestled glass. Crucibles Those that are made
 instance, one needs to lute the crucibles with earth and pestled glass. Crucibles Those that are made in winter & humid
 needs to lute the crucibles with earth and pestled glass. Crucibles Those that are made in winter & humid weather are
 Those of the founders must be thick and must be luted . Casting Finely calcined pumice stone casts 22 carat gold
 And it withstands several casts. Founder The heating For a furnace for melting a large quantity of metal Curing dogs of
 or eight days after. Excellent mustard Dry bread in an oven , then lard it with cloves & cinnamon & thus
 to soak in good wine. Then, pass everything through a tammy cloth , being well pestled, & incorporate it with your mustard
 wine. Then, pass everything through a tammy cloth, being well pestled , & incorporate it with your mustard seed. Keeping birds
 which is fleshy & more subject to decay, with some canvas that you will cut to their size & width. And
 dry easily. Then fit that skin on the a you mold made of canvas . Small ones are dried in an oven or prepared
 mold made of canvas. Small ones are dried in an oven or prepared with sal ammoniac & . Extraction of regulus
 the whole is pulverized, one needs to boil in a varnished earthenware pot on a big fire while stirring the whole often with
 a big fire while stirring the whole often with a pick of wood or iron , & the said soap will be consumed and burn
 a third. Then one needs to cast it on a tile and it will turn blackish. One will need to melt
 this four or five times and pour it on the flat tile and then you will have the regulus drawn from antimony.
 of one as of the other, &, having heated a pot or crucible red hot, they put a little of it
 as of the other, &, having heated a pot or crucible red hot, they put a little of it at a
 better. O They come out better & more neatly in stone molds than in a copper mold, because copper is fatty &
 better & more neatly in stone molds than in a copper mold , because copper is fatty & sticks unless one heats
 because copper is fatty & sticks unless one heats the mold well or one casts large works. Three quarters of lead
 pieces at a time, and throw it often on the marble or the square tile. And when you will see it
 time, and throw it often on the marble or the square tile . And when you will see it become quite even
 hot, for otherwise, it would not flow. Others smoke their molds with a resin candle to cast neatly. The antimony makes
 it would not flow. Others smoke their molds with a resin candle to cast neatly. The antimony makes the substance brittle &
 pure lead. Those who make very neat lead casts, use puncheon . Pewterers cast in a copper mold. One says that
 very neat lead casts, use puncheon. Pewterers cast in a copper mold . One says that one makes lead take hold on
 Rye straw ashes well boiled then dried & then well sieved . Bind it with glair of egg. One can cast
 of walnut tree or vine, well boiled, dried & finely sieved , bound with glair of egg. Pewterers They put into
 brittle, which becomes thicker. They cast in solid & thick tin molds or, to do it more neatly, in copper molds engraved
 thick tin molds or, to do it more neatly, in copper molds engraved with a burin, or in stone, or in earth . Since latten scraps, mixed in, only render the tin
 do it more neatly, in copper molds engraved with a burin , or in stone, or in earth. Since latten scraps,
 difficult to work with, they cast in their very hot molds & almost red & with very hot tin. They fumigate
 almost red & with very hot tin. They fumigate their tin molds with resin candles. Brittle dou tin is found mixed into
 with very hot tin. They fumigate their tin molds with resin candles . Brittle dou tin is found mixed into saulmons, easy
 not sing. One must pierce it av, not with a pin , but very gently by turning with the tip of
 pin, but very gently by turning with the tip of quite pointy feather . The calandra lark does not want to be without
 purges itself with it. Grain of lead Take a pierced playing card , pierced with a pin or needle, folded on all
 of lead Take a pierced playing card, pierced with a pin or needle, folded on all four sides. Hold it with
 Take a pierced playing card, pierced with a pin or needle , folded on all four sides. Hold it with the
 four sides. Hold it with the end of a small cleft stick and, holding the said stick by one end the other
 end of a small cleft stick and, holding the said stick by one end the other end, put your card three
 said stick by one end the other end, put your card three or 4 fingers away from the water that you
 from the water that you will have put in a dish or similar vessel. Then pour your lead, which should not
 that you will have put in a dish or similar vessel . Then pour your lead, which should not be too
 your lead, which should not be too hot, into the card & continually tap on the stick that holds it. And
 too hot, into the card & continually tap on the stick that holds it. And thus your lead will granulate itself
 will granulate itself roundly. And pass it through a coarse sieve to separate the largest grain from the smallest. The largeish
 they are. Keeping fruit for the entire year ℞ a glass ampul with an opening capable of receiving cherries and plums or
 it out & turn the opening upside down on a quite even & table , & in a room where there is not a
 wax, wrapped in waxed canvas, and adjust it to the ampul quite precisely in order that it will be all ready
 enter, & put it gently & with dexterity in the bottle . Then stop the bottle well with the stopper &
 gently & with dexterity in the bottle. Then stop the bottle well with the stopper & lute it & making the
 in the bottle. Then stop the bottle well with the stopper & lute it & making the lute if it seems
 bottle. Then stop the bottle well with the stopper & lute it & making the lute if it seems good with
 well with the stopper & lute it & making the lute if it seems good with some quicklime & oil, &
 such that no water may enter in. Then put your bottles in a vat full of water, during the summer Et
 water may enter in. Then put your bottles in a vat full of water , during the summer Et lhiver pourceque la cave s
 s in a cellar, and in the winter put your bottles into a basket furnished with some weights & lower it
 cellar, and in the winter put your bottles into a basket furnished with some weights & lower it to the bottom
 winter put your bottles into a basket furnished with some weights & lower it to the bottom of a deep well.
 something in half relief that comes to hand, fold some paper in five or six doubles, & place it on the
 in five or six doubles, & place it on the medal & make sure the paper is folded on the back
 & place it on the medal & make sure the paper is folded on the back of the medal so that
 sure the paper is folded on the back of the medal so that it is well secured. Next, take a stick,
 medal so that it is well secured. Next, take a stick , broad at one end & pointed at the other,
 at the other, well softened, and rub well on the paper , & with the point of the stick retrace the
 well on the paper, & with the point of the stick retrace the lines & proceed until you recognize that your
 done. Then, at your convenience, slightly rub oil with a paintbrush lemp on the paper imprint and cast in tallow or
 convenience, slightly rub oil with a paintbrush lemp on the paper imprint and cast in tallow or wax or sulfur, &
 and cast in tallow or wax or sulfur, & the paper , without burning, will render your portrait neat, which you
 or tripoli, and then in lead & other metal. Polished carton of little thickness & a little moistened is proper. Then
 moistened is proper. Then if you want, strengthen it with paper glued on the back. Small birds Ortolans sing at night
 one catches them in gardens on seeded lettuces with two lime-twigs . But because such regular fare would be too expensive
 the same dry mortar, by putting some pieces in their cages . The cuckoo lays in the nest of ortolans otherwise
 to their cage. For feeding young goldfinches, one needs to pestle almonds with pith a very little amount of bread pith
 If it is for linnet, some rapeseed. Curried steel and files The steel that farriers & iron workers commonly use is
 heating they reduce to a mass. The Germans make their files from strong iron. One applies steel to tools dess not
 provide them with any. And they reheat it in a pot with bitumen, &c. Counterproofing Make some soap water & with
 it & rub very vigorously across the top with a tooth or the bottom of a glass & you will transfer
 very vigorously across the top with a tooth or the bottom of a glass & you will transfer your printed piece. It is true
 on the other side. Then follow these lines with a paintbrush or a quill, then heat the paper & the oil
 side. Then follow these lines with a paintbrush or a quill , then heat the paper & the oil will go
 the piece, moisten the paper, and the polishing that the burnisher has made on the back, which shows what has been
 soap in it & do as is said. Cutters of printing plates To clean the copper plates, or to make worn ones
 as is said. Cutters of printing plates To clean the copper plates , or to make worn ones print better, boil them
 oil & not with walnut oil & press with the rollers . The copper plates are sooner made than wood blocks,
 not with walnut oil & press with the rollers. The copper plates are sooner made than wood blocks, but they are not
 with the rollers. The copper plates are sooner made than wood blocks , but they are not so appropriate for printing promptly.
 say to lay the counterproof or drawn piece onto the wood block & to make sure that the side with the traced
 the wood. Once dry, you then gently rub with a moist handkerchief the back of the paper which, by rubbing, will become
 your colors on the uncovered area. To make ink for copper plates These rollers are good for promptly printing with cut cartons
 the uncovered area. To make ink for copper plates These rollers are good for promptly printing with cut cartons different kinds
 cut cartons different kinds of pastes. One can place the plates among the linen when the lye is quite pure, or
 kinds of pastes. One can place the plates among the linen when the lye is quite pure, or in a pot.
 linen when the lye is quite pure, or in a pot . which is different from that of the printers, one
 one part of lampblack that you have previously ground on marble with oil. And finally you will mix everything as long
 everything as long as & until you see that the plate prints well. Which And when you have spread the ink
 when you have spread the ink on it, wipe the plates well with the surface of a piece of white paper.
 it, wipe the plates well with the surface of a piece of white paper . & do this until the paper looks clean and
 a piece of white paper. & do this until the paper looks clean and then print. If you were to wipe
 clean and then print. If you were to wipe the plates with a linen cloth, it would remove the ink. Linseed
 print. If you were to wipe the plates with a linen cloth , it would remove the ink. Linseed oil thickens while
 blacker. When you want to print fr, take with your fingertip of the said black moderately thick, the whole plate having
 your fingertip of the said black moderately thick, the whole plate having first been cleaned in lye as said, then, rub
 as said, then, rub it with the surface of a piece of white paper until the paper remains white & do not touch it
 the surface of a piece of white paper until the paper remains white & do not touch it with the bare
 touch it with the bare hand because but with a piece of paper applied on top. & having cleaned the plate perfectly, mi
 piece of paper applied on top. & having cleaned the plate perfectly, mi rub again with a piece of paper, fold
 having cleaned the plate perfectly, mi rub again with a piece of paper , fold the edges & sides. Next, take a small
 of paper, fold the edges & sides. Next, take a small even table & on this a piece of felt, then a few
 Next, take a small even table & on this a piece of felt , then a few sheets of paper & finally the
 & on this a piece of felt, then a few sheets of paper & finally the one you want to print on, which
 want to print on, which should be moistened between two wet napkins . And on this sheet put your plate then another
 between two wet napkins. And on this sheet put your plate then another piece of paper, & finally another felt. Then
 on this sheet put your plate then another piece of paper , & finally another felt. Then pass between the rollers.
 your plate then another piece of paper, & finally another felt . Then pass between the rollers. And you can print
 of paper, & finally another felt. Then pass between the rollers . And you can print a dozen pieces consecutively by
 can print a dozen pieces consecutively by always charging the plate with ink & cleaning it as you have done. But
 of the ink will dry in the grooves of the plate . Thus you will have to boil it in lye
 lye or urine, as already said, to clean it. The rollers must not be too loose. The work done in Algiers
 be at the appropriate heat to continue. Also take a large glass mattras , as thick as you can, & one finger thick
 it can be done, & of the capacity of one pitcher or earthen jug . Around the feast of St. John, put into it
 half a lb) of female silkworm seeds. And after having luted the mattras well (I do not know if it is
 lb) of female silkworm seeds. And after having luted the mattras well (I do not know if it is at all
 until several f worms are engendered. And then remove the mattras & do not bury it in the dung any longer,
 death by making a ring of charcoal fire around the bottle one empan distant from it, and then stopper & lute
 bottle one empan distant from it, and then stopper & lute the bottle well in order that it does not exhale.
 empan distant from it, and then stopper & lute the bottle well in order that it does not exhale. Or to
 dangerous. And for the occasion when you feed it with pincers , b wash your mouth with good vinegar & take
 it. Once it is quite dry, pulverize it in a mortar . And keep this powder carefully, because one ℥ of
 white wine, the whitest and clearest you can, in a bottle with a little tragacanth gum. And having stoppered the bottle,
 in a bottle with a little tragacanth gum. And having stoppered the bottle, scramble & shake it very strongly together, &
 bottle with a little tragacanth gum. And having stoppered the bottle , scramble & shake it very strongly together, & let
 And these show very beautifully in illumination work. Soldering a vise It is good that the jaws of the vise should
 a vise It is good that the jaws of the vise should be high to make a long piece in it,
 join well to clamp a delicate object. To solder the nut , after you have forged the bolt, you will make
 object. To solder the nut, after you have forged the bolt , you will make will forge a long iron strip
 thickness that it can fit into the notch of the bolt when red hot, & you will bend it po all
 will bend it po all around, striking it with a hammer . Once it is well jo wrapped around, you will
 is well jo wrapped around, you will insert it the bolt o around which is it is wrapped. Copper If, in
 little sublimate. It casts well in small works in a cuttlefish bone , provided it is good. Molding with paper Boil over
 Week. And to do this, one puts them in a fir box , like those where one puts sweetmeats, warmly among feather
 fir box, like those where one puts sweetmeats, warmly among feather cushions . And at the beginning, they molt like f little
 them white mulberry leaves, and then arrange them on the shelves . And three times per day, one needs to exchange
 one needs to keep in the room three or 4 chafing dishes & with glowing charcoal , & put in incense until all the room would
 they scarcely profit after one has handled it with the hand . Around Pentecost, they begin to want to climb on
 bombicum natura. How one moves them on some of the high shelves , & at that time, one knows when they want
 hard that one only cuts it with difficulty with a fingernail . And nevertheless, to leave its prison, elle the worm
 male charges the female & one puts them on a white linen , where they make their eggs, which the female would
 preserves take a which are not liquid, take an open tub pierced on both sides with a small, square window, &
 on both sides with a small, square window, & pass sticks through these on one side and the other, & place
 one side and the other, & place on these a sieve made of strings in the form of a net. And on this, you
 a net. And on this, you will properly arrange the vessels with your preserves. And having put at the bottom of
 your preserves. And having put at the bottom of the tub a chafing-dish or two, cover the tub with a bedsheet
 And having put at the bottom of the tub a chafing-dish or two, cover the tub with a bedsheet folded double.
 bottom of the tub a chafing-dish or two, cover the tub with a bedsheet folded double. For making a horse follow
 tub a chafing-dish or two, cover the tub with a bedsheet folded double. For making a horse follow +One needs to
 disguising a horse Cut its ears & tail, & with lit hay , singe the hair on its head & elsewhere. Boots
 melted. Next, load the pipe at the top with a socket that is held on the ramrod, as you know, &
 the top with a socket that is held on the ramrod , as you know, & it will only make a
 dog to test & in the wound put sap & pestled herb which is called semperviva, that is the small one
 snails you can, with their shell, put them in a glass bottle with a sufficient quantity of very hard & thoroughly boiled
 ointment is made with it, which, without cutting open the bottle you put, which above all for your safety you b
 will break it from quite far away & with a long stick without looking at it & having plugged yourself up well,
 is on the bank. Another for waters Daot ni a top with quicklime, which will consume all this powder afterward, &c.
 to wet nor grind it, but render it subtle by pestling or scraping & passing through a sieve. Thus for pumice,
 it subtle by pestling or scraping & passing through a sieve . Thus for pumice, which one ought not to grind
 said water & boil it thoroughly, stirring it with a stick , then pour it into a muid or other vessel,
 stirring it with a stick, then pour it into a muid or other vessel, then throw into it two pecks of
 a stick, then pour it into a muid or other vessel , then throw into it two pecks of salt. Next,
 throw into it two pecks of salt. Next, take a big cauldron of the said river water & heat it to a
 fatty red earth, soak it & throw it into the cauldron with the said water. Take as much pigeon dung as
 & mix the whole separately, & throw it into the cauldron & leave it for two or three days. Then throw
 or three days. Then throw it afterward into the said muid and stir the whole thoroughly together. And the older this
 others lose their color & die in the air. All marble on which a knife can prick is worth nothing for
 & die in the air. All marble on which a knife can prick is worth nothing for grinding fine colors. Chalk
 azur d’esmail or another, for it makes it green. For palettes to paint, ivory is excellent, knots of the fir tree,
 yellow & ceruse tempered in oil, then soften with a feather , which flattens better than a paintbrush. Or when the
 then soften with a feather, which flattens better than a paintbrush . Or when the imprimatura is dry, scrape strongly with
 Or when the imprimatura is dry, scrape strongly with a knife . To use azur d’esmail in oil, one needs to
 the way of working is different, because when washing the paintbrush for distemper, one always leaves it moist. And on the
 it moist. And on the contrary, when one cleans the paintbrush in oil to soften, one wipes the paintbrush well. Otherwise,
 cleans the paintbrush in oil to soften, one wipes the paintbrush well. Otherwise, the work would run & would soon be
 disfigured. The Italians soften by hatching with a large flattened paintbrush which makes serrations. And they do not lay their shadow
 made with plate lead, beaten thin & put under the dung heap . White varnish of turpentine or of spike lavender oil
 but ground after lake, it is more beautiful. For ridding marbles of grease, one grinds common ashes on it, which is
 said chalk or ra with the colors collected from the vessel where one cleans the paintbrush. It is desiccative and spares
 the colors collected from the vessel where one cleans the paintbrush . It is desiccative and spares the color. On Once
 imprimatura is made on the wood, one scrapes with a knife to even it. Next, one makes there a second imprimatura
 some pith of coarse bread on it to rid the marble of grease. Sheath maker Sheath makers use small, very delicate
 humid and soft. Then they put on the earth a small even board and put the whole in a press and let it
 a small even board and put the whole in a press and let it dry there. After the earth, only the
 relief is done differently and can be retraced with a hot iron . Painter Good crayons are not made with good glue
 and can be retraced with a hot iron. Painter Good crayons are not made with good glue but with women’s milk.
 cheeks, grind Florence lake very finely, then fill a little cotton with it, which they next wrap in a little fabric
 cotton with it, which they next wrap in a little fabric of Cambray which is clear. And thus they pounce the lake on
 the lake on their cheeks & then, with another clean cotton , they soften it. Cristallin having been ground with water
 here, but wan, & one needs to work with long paintbrushes . Fresco is not used cont on wood. Azure Turpentine
 not die as much. Always choose the most delicate one. Paintbrushes When the color has dried inside, & you want to
 penetrates & does not have body like walnut oil. The handle of paintbrushes is made by those who work with care from porcupine
 arrows from Turkey with whom with which they also make small rods to rest their hand when they are painting . To work well on a small scale very thin
 they are painting. To work well on a small scale very thin paintbrushes which have a firm point areon needed. And because a squirrel’s tail hair is soft,
 two or three of them in the middle of the paintbrush . These make a straight line like a quill &
 of the paintbrush. These make a straight line like a quill & all the other hairs of the paintbrush stick to
 like a quill & all the other hairs of the paintbrush stick to them as to the point. The bristles of
 musk are even better, for a single hair in a paintbrush suffices. Lake & lead white & ceruse are easy to
 needs to layer it not with large strokes of the paintbrush but with small strokes of the point. Not only ash
 color & becomes pale. But putting it powdered on your palette , you will thin it little by little either with
 little either with walnut oil or turpentine oil, dipping a knife point in the oil, then tempering it little by little on
 oil, then tempering it little by little on the said palette . Shadows The first shadows which are closer to light
 thoroughly ground, & work them with a point of a paintbrush if you want your work to be well-softened. Black Painting
 recently cooled. Apply it on cracks & crevices with the tip of a knife , then scrape; and to prevent it from breaking, mix
 tempered with distemper glue on the panel, not with a paintbrush but with a brush in such a way as if
 on the panel, not with a paintbrush but with a brush in such a way as if you wanted to pounce,
 times, then even out the last ground well with a knife , then give a coat of glue on top, upon
 white or calcined pulverized pglass. To avoid this, put the vial in clear water. Colors in oil, once dry, sometimes do
 & turpentine & mastic, pulverized & passed delicately through a sieve , & boil together, stirring continuously with a stick until
 through a sieve, & boil together, stirring continuously with a stick until it is dry. And put in two liards' worth
 + + which one knows when, being placed on a knife in the wind, it does not run. This one is
 And for this reason, painters use it to clean their oil paintbrush when they have become hard, for it renders them soft
 Flemish They do all their works in oil with the tip of the paintbrushes , in f the fashion of good illuminators, and grind
 very finely, protect against dust, and often clean from their paintbrush the bits of hair which they sometimes leave there, for
 well, arr soften round things by rounding them with the point of the paintbrush & the rest with the flat part if it is flat, & thus for the others according
 the others according to their nature, & lightly with the point of the dry & flattened paintbrush & with patience. Lead white Without this, you cannot work
 ceruse because it does not have enough body. Lights Your paintbrush shows it to you by casting a shadow which must
 painter Distill some vine water & put it into a big bottle . And behind this, put your candle, & it will
 it into a big bottle. And behind this, put your candle , & it will not hinder your vision. Frames of
 put your candle, & it will not hinder your vision. Frames of the Germans Germans who work in miniature make frames
 Frames of the Germans Germans who work in miniature make frames not of glass, but of canvas anointed with clear turpentine
 something subtle like veins de & similar things, they use paintbrushes composed of two or three rat whiskers . Azur d’esmail in oil One needs to choose the
 oil, & grind it thickly. Next lay it on your palette & mix in a little turpentine, but hardly any, to
 is thick like butter or mortar, & then, with a fairly large paintbrush , work it by always moving the paintbrush back and
 a fairly large paintbrush, work it by always moving the paintbrush back and forth. Then, to soften it, hatch across it
 hatch across it in a tooth-like jagging with the the tip of the paintbrush . The highlights will be made with d the same
 that you are at pains to spread it with the paintbrush . And it is all the better if you lay
 of several lines that need to be done with a ruler , and for this reason one usually does them in
 have applied imprimatura to your panel & scraped with a knife to render it quite even, you will start drawing with
 even, you will start drawing with the longest piece of charcoal you can find, for with a short one you would
 & would do it roughly. Let the tip of the charcoal be thin, & in order not to render it dull
 flat, thus you will constantly sharpen it. Also, hold your charcoal as far at the end as you can, & do
 line. For if you accustom yourself to drawing delicately with charcoal , you will do likewise with colors. And he who
 do likewise with colors. And he who is rough with charcoal is never exquisit with colors. And by a line of
 seems good to you, retrace all the lines with the paintbrush in rose color or another color in gum or distemper.
 Drawing To become an artist, one needs to draw by eye , without compass or ruler. Masters do not allow apprentices
 become an artist, one needs to draw by eye, without compass or ruler. Masters do not allow apprentices to do this.
 artist, one needs to draw by eye, without compass or ruler . Masters do not allow apprentices to do this. When
 To know the point, one needs to lay down a ruler over the lines, & at the intersection of these, the
 be. Some make a hole at the end of their rulers to fix the point by that hole & move the
 to fix the point by that hole & move the ruler about. Others lay down a ruler across the panel, then
 hole & move the ruler about. Others lay down a ruler across the panel, then on this laid-down ruler they set
 down a ruler across the panel, then on this laid-down ruler they set the tip of another ruler, which, attached to
 the panel, then on this laid-down ruler they set the tip of another ruler , which, attached to the former by means of a
 ruler, which, attached to the former by means of a screw , moves about & reaches as far as necessary without
 reaches as far as necessary without losing the point. The ruler and compass without the judgement of the eye cause errors.
 far as necessary without losing the point. The ruler and compass without the judgement of the eye cause errors. Perspective is
 without losing the point. The ruler and compass without the judgement of the eye cause errors. Perspective is very difficult. To paint perspective in
 paint perspective in oil, you ought not to use a ruler , for you would smudge everything. But when layering your
 follow the lines of your first drawing. Also, to make plumb lines , which go from the top to make vif to
 the bottom of the panel, you need to have a thread with some piece of lead attached to one end &
 piece of lead attached to one end & a little hook to the other for hanging the said thread from the
 a little hook to the other for hanging the said thread from the top of the panel. Panel To draw &
 hold your panel as upright as you can on the easel , for if it is slanted there is a danger
 the filth & ore, & pour it into a separate vessel , then the bottom they make their cast with it.
 to work before, but rather completely new. Some cast into molds of iron & copper . or new lead coming from the mine. They melt
 coming from the mine. They melt it twice in a crucible . In the first one, they purge it of filth.
 with oil. And after you have collected it with the spatula , before finishing to clean the marble, grind stil de
 collected it with the spatula, before finishing to clean the marble , grind stil de grain yellow on it. And you
 cristallin. Eye Every eye must follow the circle of the compass & not be flat & square. Oil colors in water
 three, finally a history, teaching him how to hold the charcoal by the end, & also the paintbrush. Once he knows
 to hold the charcoal by the end, & also the paintbrush . Once he knows how to draw, one teaches him
 fatty, which is recognized when they take hold on the palette once tempered in oil. Straight lines You can use the
 once tempered in oil. Straight lines You can use the ruler , but do not lay it flat on the panel,
 whatever ought to appear round must be softened in circles. Mirror When you make flesh colors, it is good to have
 you make flesh colors, it is good to have a cristallin mirror , which represents nature well, and in which it you
 too crude. But do not look at it with a candle , for firelight will make the shadows reddish. The painter
 the shadows reddish. The painter also teaches himself with the mirror , for he sees in it what nature can do.
 to pounce & then layer the gold color with the paintbrush . All fatty colors, such as ceruse and minium, massicot,
 body. But those which do not have it, such as pestled glass, lake, &c, become clear. Semi-lively colors When colors aabsorb
 need to put your charcoal at the tip of a stick such that you make your first drawing from a distance
 with gold color which is made with the washings of oil paintbrushes , because verdigris & other corrosive colors which are in
 & rest one day, next rub the gilding with a feather & cotton in order that no protrusions remain, then varnish
 one day, next rub the gilding with a feather & cotton in order that no protrusions remain, then varnish with Flanders
 Gold color that is made of different colors cleaned from paintbrushes for oil is not so good, & with time, tarnishes the gold
 & in water. One must not burnish it, because the tooth would remove it. Gather the protrusions & small flakes that
 remove it. Gather the protrusions & small flakes that the cotton makes lift off when the gold is dry & you
 thin their colors with glair of egg passed through a sponge , or mixed with the yolk, water, & thoroughly beaten
 ochre, tempered with fatty oil in which they clean their paintbrushes for oil , because the three aforesaid colors are gripping & dry
 not from that which is made from the cleaning of paintbrushes , but the pure, which is made fatty in the
 ones Take large loaves of bread freshly drawn from the oven & split them in half &, as hot as may
 bread, which softens & makes one sweat, to put on linen cloths soaked with water from a honey bee hive , that is to say honey & wax extracted all
 the honeycomb. For attracting pigeons Fry hemp seed in a pan with oil & give it to the pigeons. Against bruising
 At night, apply very thin sheets of lead. Singular remedy. Paintbrushes To make them well, cut the hair from the tail
 you, bind b and tighten it very well with a thread in two places, then cut the excess & fit it
 a duck or a crow for the small ones. Good paintbrushes are those that, once dipped in water, do not bulge
 Every ground & tempered thing becomes porous, according to some. Bellows furnace Before putting in the metal, it is necessary that it
 you fill it & cover the charcoal & adjust the bellows , otherwise the metal on top would melt by means
 the metal on top would melt by means of the bellows & its bottom would be curdled & cooled & would
 be done sooner. But the first rain carries away everything. Files If they are not trempées à pacquet, that is, in
 & vinegar, they will not be good. The square large square files used by locksmiths for their rough work are only made
 rough work are only made of soft iron, but the soft files must be made of steel. Founders whose work is to
 work is to repair latten & copper must have their files d coarse otherwise they would fill up with the copper
 render them useless. Latten, which is more brittle, welcomes softer files than copper does. Bones of the foot of oxen for
 it its first layer, simple & very thin, with a paintbrush , & leave to dry at ease. Next, fortify the
 mixed with as much of turpentine & distilled through an alembic renders an essence whiter than common water. But this has
 on simple carton, & if you please, on silvered & burnished paper which will represent the scales. And next, cover this
 chalk, pestled glass, tripoli & burnt linen, all 4 excellent. But as
 to take heed of, when you want to remake your frame mold to take new powdered chalk that has not yet been
 put to use, for the one previously used in the frame has dried out & does not have as much hold
 have as much hold & bond like the fresh one. Pestled glass can be made from common glass sand, however, cristallin
 immediately you will be able to crumble it between your fingers and easily pestle in a mortar of metal, or better
 be able to crumble it between your fingers and easily pestle in a mortar of metal, or better yet, of iron.
 crumble it between your fingers and easily pestle in a mortar of metal, or better yet, of iron . Next, it will be easy to grind it, not
 will be easy to grind it, not only on common marble that would corrode, but on porphyry, and it is necessary
 not only on common marble that would corrode, but on porphyry , and it is necessary that it be finely ground
 ground with water so that when putting it on your fingernail , you find it soft without any asperity, like the
 you can use au lie instead of sand, in a frame without moistening it with anything nor reheating it, if you
 de p with the tip of the flame of a wax candle that barely makes smoke, and it will make a very
 until it wears it out, then finely grind it on marble or on a paper. But because a lot And if
 out, then finely grind it on marble or on a paper . But because a lot And if you reheat it
 because a lot And if you reheat it in a crucible , red hot due to the fire, to render all
 you want to mold & cover it, and fill the frame with pestled slate, which molds also very neatly. But note
 to mold & cover it, and fill the frame with pestled slate, which molds also very neatly. But note that the
 of heat that it promptly burns in a shiver a paper or straw placed inside. Then remove it from the fire
 that it promptly burns in a shiver a paper or straw placed inside. Then remove it from the fire & leave
 piece of it flakes off, which easily crushes between your hands . You will also find in lean soils some which
 it is quite granular, & that when cushed between the fingers , it renders itself into very great subtlety, like impalpable,
 like impalpable, keeping nevertheless its sandy asperity, without muddying the fingers like clay. It is dried slightly on the fire, then
 It is dried slightly on the fire, then it is pestled & passed finely through a double sieve or a linen
 fire, then it is pestled & passed finely through a double sieve or a linen sleeve, then is moistened with wine or
 pestled & passed finely through a double sieve or a linen sleeve , then is moistened with wine or magistra &c /
 Toulouse molder reheats it strongly then grinds it finely on marble and passes it through a linen & moistens pass it
 grinds it finely on marble and passes it through a linen & moistens pass it with wine. He makes the cast
 it, and f with a thickness as delicate as a knife blade or a card. And it was hollow on one
 a thickness as delicate as a knife blade or a card . And it was hollow on one side, opposite the
 quarter part, with the substance of skillets. Founders do cast frames up to 30 or 40 lb, but not more. It
 cast, add some saltpeter, by folding your additions in a paper in order that everyone may not know what you mix
 oxen foot. Oil & tallow make it very porous, & pestled glass, & copper alone. Cendrée earth molds very neatly. Ash
 better not to mix the sands, but to fill the frame with one only. Latten is always fatty, & does not
 beautiful & very fine grain, & a little fatty. One pestles it, then one dries it in a skillet on the
 fatty. One pestles it, then one dries it in a skillet on the fire, until it is no longer smokes, then
 longer smokes, then one passes it through a fine & double sieve , & one molds with it. Copper or latten cannot
 large works in latten, y mix in the sand some pestled glass to give the earth bond. But it makes it
 heat when they throw off, while stirring them in the crucible , a very white flame & that the bath is
 wine in this manner. They heat it in a large tin pot until it boils, and when it is boiling up, they
 is boiling up, they remove it from light it with burning paper to know if it is hot enough. Next, to ignite
 Next, to ignite it entirely, they pour it from one vessel into another, as one who wants to beat eau panée,
 as they are doing this, someone else lights with a burning paper what is falling from one vessel into the other, such
 lights with a burning paper what is falling from one vessel into the other, such that you would think you were
 make it drink some of the aforesaid wine through a horn , and it finds itself disposed for doing an even
 mastic subtly pulverized. And first, boil your oil in a pot on a chafing dish, and then mix in little by
 And first, boil your oil in a pot on a chafing dish , and then mix in little by little the aforesaid
 little by little the aforesaid gums, stirring continually with a small stick split and quartered at the tip , & when you do not collect gum with the
 Ireland, there are none, & if one touches them with wood that is there, they die. This is why some rich
 in lead. Casting in copper It is necessary that the frame be quite even & that it fits well also on
 quite even & that it fits well also on the board where it is set, so that it holds firm &
 well chosen and well reheated, & pulverized very finely on marble , for the one that you want to put first
 be worse off, but it will enter well in the mold . Cast from the foot of the medal, in order
 & more relieved from the violent heat. And if your frame does not have vents, make some qu in the sand,
 quite hot. At that time, invigorate the heat of your furnace with bellows of the right size, keeping the mouth of
 At that time, invigorate the heat of your furnace with bellows of the right size, keeping the mouth of the furnace
 bellows of the right size, keeping the mouth of the furnace well covered with some large copper tile or other similar
 mouth of the furnace well covered with some large copper tile or other similar thing, which should be very red before
 you cast. When you want to cast, take your red-hot pincers & the crooked iron as well, to clean the charcoals
 you want to cast, take your red-hot pincers & the crooked iron as well, to clean the charcoals which are in your
 in your substance. Having cast, rub your work with a latten wirebrush . The grindings from sharpening large scissors & large knives
 soft & runny that it can be melted in a tin dish . It is composed of one part looking-glass tin, one
 & fine & lean, which nonetheless sticks together between one’s fingers . The sand wants to be reheated before putting it
 once well moistened. One ought to pass it through a shirt sleeve for the finest one, in order to put it first
 white, but it is brittle. Make it so that your frame joins well & that one does not see the light
 You will know its goodness by rubbing it with your finger , which will render it very black immediately. The alloy
 puts in a little quicksilver. Rub cuttlefish bone on a well evened table to flatten it & one against the other & pierce
 against the other & pierce through the two bones with pegs to mark the place. Cuttlefish bone molds lead better than
 through the two bones with pegs to mark the place. Cuttlefish bone molds lead better than anything else. But try it to
 neatly rather hot, & not at once & shake the frame a little & cast two or three times. However, if
 But this renders it brittle &not it breaks under the hammer . Take a wirebrush to clean your molds. For making
 it brittle &not it breaks under the hammer. Take a wirebrush to clean your molds. For making blue varnish Take the
 breaks under the hammer. Take a wirebrush to clean your molds . For making blue varnish Take the blue of flowers
 let there always be water, and take a very clean pan . And when they are washed, boil them in the
 ash of vine shoots, and put them into the hottest pot you can, and put into the pot goldsmith’s water, verdigris,
 into the hottest pot you can, and put into the pot goldsmith’s water, verdigris, and leave for the space of some
 All of this will be done better in a hollow grais . For making bronze in gold color Take one ounce
 one ounce of sal ammoniac and grind it in an iron mortar . Once well ground, take one ounce of sulfur, and
 lavender oil & one ounce of sandarac. Take a clean pot , & warm it, & then take it from the
 put the drugs inside, and next put them into a vial , & apply it on the wood. Another recipe for
 & a half-septier of vinegar. Push it all into a small tile oven and make a small charcoal fire around it, and put
 make a small charcoal fire around it, and put your pot into the said oven for the whole day. For bronzing
 fire around it, and put your pot into the said oven for the whole day. For bronzing white Take looking-glass tin
 tin & put it to soak in gum water & pestle it in a mortar. And next, you will put it
 to soak in gum water & pestle it in a mortar . And next, you will put it on marble. For
 in a mortar. And next, you will put it on marble . For making vermilion Take two pounds of sulfur, &
 quite gently, so the air does not pass into the pot , then put the whole for some time after into
 then put the whole for some time after into a leaded pot , onto the fire for the space of twenty-four hours.
 linseed oil, and then you will put it in a earthen pot , mixed with a crust of bread and three onions,
 make it boil just as before and stir with a spoon . And then, after, you will put in two ounces
 then, after, you will put in two ounces of well- pestled sandarac & will do as above. And then after, you
 until it is cooked enough. And pour it into a cloth that should be rather tight . And when you have poured it, let it to
 other. Then wash your hands quite well & with your palm spread your varnish. Recipe for white gum Take white wax
 ceruse & a small amount of fine pitch very well pestled together, & put it in a small new pot &
 well pestled together, & put it in a small new pot & make it melt. And when it will be melted
 And when it will be melted you will make a spatula of wood of& burnish what you want. Green gum Take green wax
 your wood, and take pin filings, and grind it on marble with water, then pour it on the wood & polish
 then pour it on the wood & polish it with copper . Bronze like tin Take looking-glass tin, two ounces of
 of quicksilver, & melt the looking-glass tin into a new pot . And difiant as soon as it is all melted,
 Then take a piece of tin & burnish it on marble with clear water, and then coat it on the wood,
 on the wood, and polish it with a piece of tin . For making aquafortis Take a half-septier of vinegar with
 one ounce of solle, then put them together in a glass vial . Or moulu Take fine gold & put it on
 fine gold & put it on a quite clean bu marble & put aquafortis & start crushing. Then take saltpeter &
 take saltpeter & sal ammoniac, and put it into a shell which should be large & washed, for safekeeping. For making
 you want to gild, and cut your gold with a knife to the price that you will lay. And one must
 lay. And one must lay the said gold with ie cotton . And if you can find a fig tree, take
 take a partridge feather, & make it burn in a chafing-dish , and make the smoke go against what you have
 soak with gum water and lay it down with a paintbrush , & polish it with a skin wolf’s tooth when
 down with a paintbrush, & polish it with a skin wolf’s tooth when it is dry. Recipe for putting all woods in
 mixed together, and you will put your substances into a leaded pot over the fire without taking air, & then put the
 over the fire without taking air, & then put the pot in a dung heap for fifteen days, and once it
 without taking air, & then put the pot in a dung heap for fifteen days, and once it is out, you will
 of glass alum, and you will put all in your pot , & do as with green. For making it blue
 & pulverize them very well and in a very clean mortar . And take as much of sulfur, & grind all
 sulfur, & grind all together, and put everything in a glass vial , & keep them in the cellar or other damp
 other, and then let it dry on a piece of paper , & not put the hand in your materials. Against
 Dry rosemary in the month of May, then fill this bowl with powder of it, and put a lit charcoal on
 varnish with clear water which you will use with a paintbrush and immediately dry, for putting on paper, a tablet, or
 between two pieces of paper or card or in a mortar , but it should not be too small, then take
 but it should not be too small, then take a glass vial not too big and put into it a half of
 half ounces. Next take the said benzoin just as coarsely pestled , and put it to use with the said water
 then take the said water & put it into another glass vial & mix it very well. And on the rest of
 benzoin that remains at the bottom of the said first vial , put the rest of the water over this, and
 white copperas, and put all these drugs together into an earthen pot that should be new, and lay it on hot ashes
 da Rac & make these drugs melt in a new earthen pot , & when it will be melted, you will pass
 will be melted, you will pass it in a clean cloth & you will see a beautiful varnish. Another varnish Take
 the spike lavender oil, & then mix it with a stick until you see that it is melted, and then put
 that it is melted, and then put it in a glass vial . And when you want to use it, heat it
 very clear glue, & then put it down with a paintbrush . For making red varnish Take vermilion & temper it
 all together with verdigris, and put it in a new earthen vessel with your wood, & put it in some very warm
 alum as antimony, and pestle the whole together in an iron mortar , & then mix with gum water while grinding it
 & then mix with gum water while grinding it on marble , & then one needs to use it with a
 marble, & then one needs to use it with a paintbrush , & next let it dry, and then polish it
 next let it dry, and then polish it with a tooth of a wolf or dog . For making bronze in the color of gold Take
 gum & alum, & grind it all together in a stone mortar , and when it is well ground, you will lay
 ground, you will lay it on the work with a paintbrush , then polish it with a tooth of a wolf
 the work with a paintbrush, then polish it with a tooth of a wolf or dog . For making bone or horn green Take verdigris &
 of latten, & put it together, & grind it on marble , grind it well with water little by little, until
 until they are distilled, then put them into some new vessel . And when you want to use some of it,
 let it dry, & rub the said bronze with a tooth of a wolf or dog . Making gray wood Take some grais powder, ___ ___
 the fire, then put it as a powder on a white cloth stretched over a very clean glass, & the powder on
 as a powder on a white cloth stretched over a very clean glass , & the powder on top, then take fountain water
 then take fountain water & pass it through the said cloth , while stirring the said powder with the finger until
 the said cloth, while stirring the said powder with the finger until it has all gone through. Then wash your y
 sal ammoniac, and put the tin to melt in a spoon . When it is melted, put in quicksilver, and cast
 put in quicksilver, and cast it in a line, then pestle all these drugs together in a mortar, & and put
 a line, then pestle all these drugs together in a mortar , & and put it into an earthen pot, &
 together in a mortar, & and put it into an earthen pot , & it should have many hot ashes underneath, &
 iron nail heads, and continue in this way until the crucible is full. And melt inside a four à vent, &
 way until the crucible is full. And melt inside a four à vent , & then mix a little tin & fill up
 & then mix a little tin & fill up the crucible with lead until it causes it. And increase the fire
 of fifty lb of powder, in the shape of a reinforced firkin , and having made a hole even of with the
 with the ground at the foot of a wall with gimlets , they set the said loaded petard in that hole,
 to make water rise higher than its source, make a pipe descend as in A B to B in order to
 to the water, then from B to C make the pipe ascend again, which should not quite attain the height of
 represented to you by this horizontal line, then make the pipe descend again from C to D, then raise it again,
 desired height, heeding nonetheless that the length of the descending pipe should be twice as long as the ascending pipe. This
 descending pipe should be twice as long as the ascending pipe . This cornet folded back on itself also shows you
 should be twice as long as the ascending pipe. This cornet folded back on itself also shows you a perpetual fountain
 When they have some relief, first they imprint it on carton , as thick as one finger, to serve as a
 finger, to serve as a pattern, then with a little compass & little matching iron fittings, they engrave their figures, having
 worn down one against the other, they make their p molds of three or four pieces, to make a circle or
 the stones render themselves even. Before casting, they rub the mold with tallow, which has quickly absorbed it because it is
 is hot. Then, taking fine powder of quicklime in a linen , they pounce the mold while beating with the linen
 fine powder of quicklime in a linen, they pounce the mold while beating with the linen on top, then blow a
 a linen, they pounce the mold while beating with the linen on top, then blow a little on top to prevent
 the medal that is least visible. And then with a borer they pierce the mold on the side of the medal.
 least visible. And then with a borer they pierce the mold on the side of the medal. And if they want
 work to stay pierced in any place, they drive in a bit of cork at this place in the mold. And the lead or
 in a bit of cork at this place in the mold . And the lead or tin will not attach to
 or tin will not attach to it. Make sure the pegs of your frame enter easily so that in opening the
 not attach to it. Make sure the pegs of your frame enter easily so that in opening the frame will easily
 of your frame enter easily so that in opening the frame will easily open without shifting anything, and that your frames
 frame will easily open without shifting anything, and that your frames fit well together, & the table is quite even. Try
 anything, and that your frames fit well together, & the table is quite even . Try to etch with distilled vinegar. Try calcined oyster
 flame, which generates des some filth. Before filling in the frame , you can put in the finest sand you have
 can put in the finest sand you have in a very fine linen , & dry pounce the medal and then the moistened
 cooked, which you will recognize when cooking it in an iron or metal pot , you mix it with an iron rod, & if
 an iron or metal pot, you mix it with an iron rod , & if it attaches to the iron, it is
 you temper it should be a little warm & the mold made with the aforesaid earth also a little hot. The
 to take paper from Florence, which is the finest, & pestle it & soak it several times & change the water
 you have molded it in the hollow form, put a linen over it, & from the back, rub the back of
 the back, rub the back of the paper with a tooth , as if you wanted to burnish it, and it
 the metal touching the iron or the latten of the frame , but cover it with sand or lute. Do the
 latten of the frame, but cover it with sand or lute . Do the casting very evenly. Sand Calcined black pebbles
 one makes tiles, reheated & reddened & passed through a sleeve finely mixed with glair. Willow charcoal is excellent for sand
 is excellent for sand for b lead. Latten runs better. Frame casting It is good to make it with boxwood. Turn
 make it even, as this is important for the casting. Lute also, or cover the mouth of the frame with sand
 the casting. Lute also, or cover the mouth of the frame with sand in order that the melted metal, or lead,
 melted metal, or lead, or copper does not touch the frame ’s iron or latten, because it makes it brittle, &
 make sure that the cast is always higher than the mold . Also guard against the cast being too wide or
 of the substance that runs breaks & shakes loose the mold & makes it porous. When you have cast, gently tap
 makes it porous. When you have cast, gently tap the frame , in order that the substance spreads better. Black lead
 you see it neat & even on top, without filth. Frame Iron & copper make it porous if the metal touches
 metal touches it, & the wood warps. Thus, make a mold of wood, & have frames of bricks made inside this
 wood warps. Thus, make a mold of wood, & have frames of bricks made inside this mold of whatever thickness that
 of wood, & have frames of bricks made inside this mold of whatever thickness that you want. Glair of eggs Glair
 teeth of their cogwheels proportionately, they do not use a compass , for there is none so fine that it can
 compass, for there is none so fine that it can compass distances as small as those of the small cogwheels. But
 Then they mark a line on the cogwheel with a sharp point , then move the alidade to the following point, &
 & blacker when cast well hot. One can make a lead mold , & to cast in it, smoke it with candle
 lead mold, & to cast in it, smoke it with candle black. But it is never that neat. Never does lead
 while stirring it throws sparks. To heat well, place your crucible as low as possible & at the very bottom of
 low as possible & at the very bottom of the forge , so that the bellows fra beat on the middle
 at the very bottom of the forge, so that the bellows fra beat on the middle of the crucible, for in
 that the bellows fra beat on the middle of the crucible , for in this way it is better than on
 for in this way it is better than on the grate on which one usually puts the crucible, under which the
 than on the grate on which one usually puts the crucible , under which the bellows beat. It is true that
 on which one usually puts the crucible, under which the bellows beat. It is true that the crucible risks more danger
 under which the bellows beat. It is true that the crucible risks more danger breaking, but you can lute it as
 that the crucible risks more danger breaking, but you can lute it as you know founders do. And also, one ought
 And also, one ought to maintain the charcoal between the bellows & the crucible. Also take heed to cast all at
 ought to maintain the charcoal between the bellows & the crucible . Also take heed to cast all at once &
 well at the bottom, stir it, once melted, with a wood stick , for iron only makes it brittle. Turn. Some put
 to heat it & make it run. Put under your crucible a thick iron slab, which will redden & will maintain
 & make it run. Put under your crucible a thick iron slab , which will redden & will maintain the heat under
 which will redden & will maintain the heat under your crucible . The copper substance is found to be good for
 The grey soot of locksmiths, which is held in the forge , is very fine once ground, molds very neatly, &
 & burnt bone, all of which ground very finely & pestled & watered with saltwater; & make a paste of it
 fire. These three sands, pulverized and very finely ground on porphyry , mold well, and I think that separately each of
 of vine shoots & clay earth, well cooked & well sieved , as much of one as the other, & join
 with well beaten glair of eggs, then calcine in the furnace , & to use it, temper it with vinegar. Another
 it, temper it with vinegar. Another for lead ℞ finely pestled slate & calcined pumice stone, mixed together. Calcine them in
 pumice stone, mixed together. Calcine them in a well covered pot , & thrice stoppered over a good fire, & each
 mixed with the others. Excellent sand Alabaster calcined in a crucible over charcoal fire, so that, touching it, it turns into
 Once cold, pulverize it finely & pass it through a double sieve & render it as if impalpable. And d with one
 paste, mold what you will need, & next dry the mold in the fire, & cast whichever metal you wish, while
 figure of metal that you s have molded in the frame , without moving it from its place. And cast, &
 press a little & push the figure down in the frame . It is good to mold always the faces not
 better for moistening than wine. It is necessary that the frame be quite smooth and even, otherwise and that the cast
 one side, the other one lifts. This is why the press is better, for it tightens evenly, & more than your
 is better, for it tightens evenly, & more than your hands , and makes the coarse sand, which is damp, communicate
 you mold, always leave your medal in one of the frames , is without stirring it because, if your hollow form
 put it back in the right place by means of pegs , which will prevent it from shifting. But, at first,
 knock it when molding because this will shake loose the frame & the sand. Bellows To melt with bellows, & hasten
 because this will shake loose the frame & the sand. Bellows To melt with bellows, & hasten your melt, & also
 loose the frame & the sand. Bellows To melt with bellows , & hasten your melt, & also cast hotter po,
 melt, & also cast hotter po, do not place your bellows at the bottom near the foot of the furnace, for
 your bellows at the bottom near the foot of the furnace , for fear that some charcoal might you enter it,
 charcoal might you enter it, put them almost under the grate . It is good that your four à vent be
 them almost under the grate. It is good that your four à vent be in an aerated place so that the wind might
 & reheat. One ought to plug the doors of the furnace & that there is only the entry of the blast-pipe
 furnace & that there is only the entry of the blast-pipe of the bellows. And by the end, you need to
 there is only the entry of the blast-pipe of the bellows . And by the end, you need to give it
 I believe that reheating it at the mouth of the oven , after the bread has been taken out, would be
 hard as marble, & you can polish it, & the mold cannot be spoiled. Once used, pestle & sieve it again,
 polish it, & the mold cannot be spoiled. Once used, pestle & sieve it again, yet without being scrupulous to render
 & the mold cannot be spoiled. Once used, pestle & sieve it again, yet without being scrupulous to render it so
 so fine, I for having been passed only through a common sieve , it has more force than and releases better, than
 rock salt or salt finely pulverized sandiver & put on marble in a cellar, & it will dry out by reheating
 a cellar, & it will dry out by reheating the mold , & will give it a bond to withstand several
 as many castings as you wish. Try to moisten the pestled glass and other e sands with the waters of the
 it is in lumps, then one reheats it in a copper kettle or similar thing, untill it no longer smokes It is
 of oxen feet, thoroughly burned & pulverized & ground on porphyry , until it is not felt between your fingers. It
 ground on porphyry, until it is not felt between your fingers . It molds on its own very neatly. But because
 a closed fire, and all three very well ground on porphyry mold very neatly in lead, without needing to be reheated
 a lot, & casting le in a hot or cold frame . Felt alone molds very neatly once moistened & releases
 low reliefs I took ceruse and crushed it dry on porphyry to make it very fine, then I moistened so much
 paste, smoothing it perfectly with the dull side of a knife . I left it a little X One ought to
 little X One ought to mix it well with a knife . to rest on a very clean & smooth table,
 mix it well with a knife. to rest on a very clean & smooth table , & since it is desiccative, I knew it would
 & to mold it with sand, broken up with my fingers & the sharp edge of a knife. I oiled my
 up with my fingers & the sharp edge of a knife . I oiled my medal, because oil cleans it without
 And And having dried it & cleaned it with a linen cloth & very small hog bristle brushes, I once again lightly
 dried it & cleaned it with a linen cloth & very small hog bristle brushes , I once again lightly anointed it with clear walnut
 anointed it with clear walnut oil & gently passed a linen cloth over it so that it does not remain too anointed,
 do on the first try. I reheated it & my mold became hard like marble, and by this I knew that
 with glair, then mix it well. And once in the frame , beat on top with a pestle, or other appropriate
 And once in the frame, beat on top with a pestle , or other appropriate thing, for this makes it mold
 and release better. It would be good to fill the frame all at once, for the mixture that is made of
 with that of the mine, with which you fill the frame , corrupts it. Green varnish for medals of copper Having
 keep them under the dung. Glue The Flemish reglue their earthen pots with gold color, that is to say minium, massicot &
 is also good. Rosette, to come out neatly, wants the mold to be a little hot, & lead which has also
 also been mixed with the rosette, especially for small pieces. Mortars It is necessary that they be of the finest substance
 in order that it withstands the blow better. Also the mortars for pestling are stronger & less in danger of breaking
 that it withstands the blow better. Also the mortars for pestling are stronger & less in danger of breaking if they
 well reheated for great metals. Some burn it in the furnace until it is very black and grind it finely on
 until it is very black and grind it finely on porphyry . Others burn it with aspalte, but when it is
 from Thoulouse, & after reheating it well twice, in a skillet , I passed it through a fine sieve, like the
 well twice, in a skillet, I passed it through a fine sieve , like the apothecaries’ double, without finely grinding it further
 a skillet, I passed it through a fine sieve, like the apothecaries’ double , without finely grinding it further on the porphyry, as
 the apothecaries’ double, without finely grinding it further on the porphyry , as I have done previously. I moistened it with
 potin. And before that, I had so reheated my molded frame , now with the flame of my furnace, now putting
 reheated my molded frame, now with the flame of my furnace , now putting lit charcoals on top of it, that
 have molded the bone of oxen feet, burned, pulverized & sieved through a double sieve & hum fort moistened with glair
 bone of oxen feet, burned, pulverized & sieved through a double sieve & hum fort moistened with glair of egg or wine
 on it moderately while molding. Having undone the opened the frame , I found that the figures had not released neatly
 that the figures had not released neatly & left the molds floury & crumbling. I les moistened the bone sand further,
 that it gave a good hold in the between the fingers , and in this way, I molded neatly with a
 It is true that I had very very reheated my frame ; it withstood only one cast. I find that when
 more heat than small quantities. It is necessary that the frame be cold, & that you cast all at once. Always
 be cold, & that you cast all at once. Always lute the entrance of your frame, for the metal, touching iron
 cast all at once. Always lute the entrance of your frame , for the metal, touching iron or metal, This bone
 touching iron or metal, This bone wants to be well pestled in a mortar and does not want be reheated because
 metal, This bone wants to be well pestled in a mortar and does not want be reheated because it crumbles. becomes
 easily or enter at all. Also, make sure that the mold & the cast are well reheated. Cast also all at
 wind. And if your medal is really thin, put a card or two or three thicknesses of paper underneath, when you
 thin, put a card or two or three thicknesses of paper underneath, when you want to mold it. In this way
 when you want to mold it. In this way the mold will be lower than the cast. Cast also at the
 dross & burned felt, thoroughly pulverized & ground finely on marble and well mixed together. I moistened them very well with
 medal with it, as in the others, then filled the frame with sand from the mine, I knocked moderately. I found
 (for if possible, no humidity ought to remain in the frame ). I cast twice in copper alloyed with ☾, as
 ever found. When you mold, make certain lines around your mold , in the frame, in order to attract the substance
 you mold, make certain lines around your mold, in the frame , in order to attract the substance to all sides,
 To mold well, one ought to cast in a big frame several medals together, for when there is a lot of
 for when there is a lot of substance & the crucible is almost full, it heats more, & then, if one
 will be good. It is better to melt in a bellows furnace than in a four à vent, because it gives a
 better to melt in a bellows furnace than in a four à vent , because it gives a more vigorous heat. It is
 heat. It is true that latten melts well in the four à vent , because it is easier to melt than copper, being
 prevents it from releasing very neatly & shakes loose the mold . Take heed also that the sand does not surpass
 that the sand does not surpass the edges of the frame , for it makes the molded medal higher than the
 sure that the surface of your cast object surpasses the mold in a straight line, and to do this, if it
 if it seems good to you, put a piece of carton of whatever thickness you please. Founders, in order to prevent
 have been reheated sufficiently, they knock against it with their finger , & if they start to ring like a pot,
 yet vinegar, and keep it all year long in a barrel . Sand of the mine of Thoulouse Casting sand coming
 Casting sand coming from the mine, once passed through a double sieve , next put in with melted resin, burns & inflames
 is completely black and can be ground very finely on porphyry . Having prepared it thus & rendered it without asperity
 prepared it thus & rendered it without asperity on the fingernail , I moistened it with beaten glair of egg &
 reheated & at ease. Others beat it well in a mortar , in small amounts at a time, & thus it
 only to dry it. Next, they grind it dry on porphyry . And thus it becomes as if impalpable and not
 burnt. Once moistened with glair of egg passed through a sponge , it releases very neatly M very neatly in low
 has a point at the top, for it grows higher. Mortars Fine copper mortars do not throw fire, as long as
 a point at the top, for it grows higher. Mortars Fine copper mortars do not throw fire, as long as the iron pestle
 copper mortars do not throw fire, as long as the iron pestle is not tempered. The metal mortar does the same, because
 as long as the iron pestle is not tempered. The metal mortar does the same, because it is sour. One makes, for
 is sour. One makes, for this purpose, the bottom of large mortars from fine copper. Varnish Turpentine oil, turpentine & good eau-de-vie
 to render it desiccative. Heat it without mixing on the chafing dish , so that it mixes pu by itself when melting.
 by itself when melting. Next, test on a very clean knife , & you will know then if it has enough
 is stained & as if rusty, pass ashes through the sieve & mix them with the wheat, then boult the whole
 them with the wheat, then boult the whole with a boulting cloth of rough cloth or canvas . The ashes will pass through & your wheat will
 rock salt and sand from the mine finely ground on marble The one and the other, once very finely ground on
 The one and the other, once very finely ground on marble , after having thoroughly pestled them dry & beaten in
 other, once very finely ground on marble, after having thoroughly pestled them dry & beaten in the mortar, I mixed as
 after having thoroughly pestled them dry & beaten in the mortar , I mixed as much of one as the other,
 one as the other, and having reworked them together on porphyry & passed them through a double sieve or through the
 reworked them together on porphyry & passed them through a double sieve or through the sleeve of a shirt to mixs them
 & passed them through a double sieve or through the sleeve of a shirt to mixs them even better, I put them in paper
 shirt to mixs them even better, I put them in paper & put them on a marble in a cellar. In
 I put them in paper & put them on a marble in a cellar. In one night, they had been moistened
 not too lean. However, it should break apart between your hands & have very small men & delicate grains & of
 & grind it finely, either through water or through a sieve & when it or on the porphyry, & in this
 or through a sieve & when it or on the porphyry , & in this way, from sil lean they become
 & well bound. You can mold with it in sa frame or en noyau without cloth waste, & try it with
 & for small works, they only pass it through a sieve . But those who work in small works, finely grind
 I have pulverized them separately & finely ground them on porphyry , as much as I could. Then I mixed as
 much of one as the other & reworked them on porphyry . Next, I moistened it in paper, folded in a
 & reworked them on porphyry. Next, I moistened it in paper , folded in a wet napkin, which is previously made
 Next, I moistened it in paper, folded in a wet napkin , which is previously made in the serain of the
 mold neatly, for it crumbles. Reheating or drying a molded frame Always put the most delicate part, such as the face,
 alabaster Sal ammoniac, well pulverized mou & ground dry on marble , molds very neatly & is of a very beautiful
 the serain or, to be done more quickly, in a piece of paper between a wet napkin. Take heed that it does not
 more quickly, in a piece of paper between a wet napkin . Take heed that it does not stay for too
 that it would not be good for molding in a frame , but rather en noyau, in which you will be
 together, without, however, attaching itself & being pasted to your hand . You will mold very neatly with it. But let
 But let it dry & reheat very thoroughly, leaving the mold inside so that it acquires strength by reheating, for it
 that glassmakers & potters use, which becomes impalpable ground on porphyry & is easy to grind. And once ground, it resembles
 as this one for lowf relief. It is excellent to mold en noyau without a frame, having ground it impalpable with
 relief. It is excellent to mold en noyau without a frame , having ground it impalpable with gummed or pure water
 having ground it impalpable with gummed or pure water on porphyry , then placing it, thick as mustard or a little
 ammoniac, dried well in the fire & in a hot bronze mortar , and passed it through the double sieve; it became
 in a hot bronze mortar, and passed it through the double sieve ; it became very fine. But to render it even
 it even more delicate, I have ground it dry on porphyry . Then, I mixed it with pulverized & finely ground
 the serain, or in the cellar, or otherwise with the napkin , & it releases very neatly. Sand Molders from Foix
 & which is found soft when handling it between the fingers . And because the latter is only found near the
 molding. For if it is coarse, pass it through a sieve , and if it is not yet fine enough, wash
 little, empty that which is still troubled in some separate vessel . The coarse will promptly fall down to the bottom
 will promptly fall down to the bottom of the first vessel , but the one which will have come from the
 does not have enough bond, grind it quite dry on porphyry , & you will render it impalpable, & which will
 washed things. Terre fondue of potters Grind it in a mortar mustard mill with some water & render it impalpable, dry
 things. Terre fondue of potters Grind it in a mortar mustard mill with some water & render it impalpable, dry it &
 those who are in the colder regions, like Lombardy, make square wooden cases , a little larger at the bottom than at the
 larger at the bottom than at the top, and affix buckles on its sides for transporting them with straps, as one
 and affix buckles on its sides for transporting them with straps , as one carries gout sufferers, because the wheels with
 they do not forget to open the sides of the cases for trimming & dexterously cutting, with the soil, the ends
 it would be better to join the sides of the cases with screws & not with nails, in order to not
 be better to join the sides of the cases with screws & not with nails, in order to not shake the
 the sides of the cases with screws & not with nails , in order to not shake the soil when one
 turns fragile & short & slow to grow. Molding with cuttlefish bone Guard against keeping them in a damp place, for they
 the bone in two, then even it out with a knife . And on a hooked rooftile, quite dry & quite
 then even it out with a knife. And on a hooked rooftile , quite dry & quite smoothed & covered with pulverized
 willow charcoal, rub & smooth the two halves of the bones . Thus they imbibe this willow charcoal, which makes them
 release well & guards against removing anything. Then, on a counter bone , that is to say a piece of brick evened
 a piece of brick evened to the size of your bone , place your medal, & then on this one, place
 place your medal, & then on this one, place the bone , & press well with some other piece of the
 it is for a spoon handle, one needs two whole bones . All cast work is brittle & subject to breaking,
 metal expands when cast, & retracts & condenses under the hammer . That is why one ought to retrace the cast
 why one ought to retrace the cast thing with a chisel , & in this way the metal retracts. Let it
 piece for molding is of high relief, first trace the mold & hollow it with a penknife to make way for
 relief, first trace the mold & hollow it with a penknife to make way for the medal, & then mold. And
 if the medal has two sides Before casting, heat the bones in order to make them lose only the coldness &
 the lead gets too hot, it calcines. since the two bones are joined, co cut them evenly all around, & make
 different places which cross over the join of the two bones , in order to recognize well the place of the
 the place of the first join. Or else, with little shards of wood , pierce them, or ma coat the joins with some
 joins with some clay, & dry. Press, between them your hands joined between your two knees & not with a press, because the bones would crack.
 hands joined between your two knees & not with a press , because the bones would crack. Mold also at your
 your two knees & not with a press, because the bones would crack. Mold also at your leisure & two or
 with oil & with willow charcoal powder & with a brush , to make it dull. Take care that your medal
 is not too greasy or oily when you mold in cuttlefish bone . When you have cast, leave it to cool before
 one takes it out hot, it brings with it some bone . And cast moderately hot, which you will know when
 And cast moderately hot, which you will know when the bone is about to change its good whiteness. But when it
 whiteness. But when it is too hot, it turns the bone very red. The proportion of lead & tin is as
 attracts the metal & feeds the figure better. Shake your frame a little when you have cast, and thus you will
 neatly several casts. Tin that is too hot pburns the bone , which is corrupted. Also, once taken out du mo
 corrupted. Also, once taken out du mo hot from the mold , it risks breaking. Sand Mixture easy to melt One
 to melt that it can easily be melted in a dish of fine tin . Molding hollow on one side and in relief on
 it. And one leaves it in one half of the frame & presses it a little so that it holds better.
 it holds better. And next, you will cast in your frame some solder described above, or another more meltable than fine
 right, mix some lamp black with water &, with a paintbrush , give a light coat of this to the medal,
 coat of this to the medal, which remains in the frame , & leave to dry. Thus it will not melt.
 boiling it one or two hours in a rather large iron pot , putting in, for an ℥ of ☿, ii ℥
 to assay if it is tin or ☿, redden a shovel & put a small piece of your ingot on top.
 it will evaporate. One ought to congeal it in a spoon or in a hollow crucible & make a moderately sized
 ought to congeal it in a spoon or in a hollow crucible & make a moderately sized hole. It can also be
 that burns, and which has not fallen into the bo hearth , molds very neatly. Sand Ashes Well pulverized tallow molds
 of the face which is on canvas with a wet sponge . Then, with a small paintbrush, one makes the shadows,
 on canvas with a wet sponge. Then, with a small paintbrush , one makes the shadows, which do not come undone.
 color, one touches the more prominent areas. And with another paintbrush , one does the shadows again by hatching. The shadow
 kitchens. It is difficult to grind & screeches on the marble . Azure Azur d’esmail always wants to be cleaned, because
 it two times, & the first very thick, moving the paintbrush by layering it first lengthwise then across. It is better
 imbibed, it becomes dark. To try it, painters bring their palette to the grocers, & temper & alloy it with a
 of azure & lake, which is also assayed on the palette with white. The one is deemed beautiful that, on a
 with white. The one is deemed beautiful that, on a polished knife or on glass, givesu a clear red color of red
 is deemed beautiful that, on a polished knife or on glass , givesu a clear red color of red rose, tending
 sharp ridges & are more troublesome to furbish because the fustée cannot get in. But one makes one in particular which
 to come loose, it would all d break immediately. On iron wire or dog skin, one also puts glue on it. The
 it would all d break immediately. On iron wire or dog skin , one also puts glue on it. The garnishment of
 from two thr or three threads turned twisted on the spinning wheel , or 4 if the silk is thin. The slightly
 attached & laid down to furbish it is called the chameau , it is commonly of rowan, which is hard &
 stick, which is folded like a bow, is called the arson . The upper is called the stick of the fustée.
 bow, is called the arson. The upper is called the stick of the fustée . And this small square piece, which is put lon
 one is called the oil
 one is called the oil horn and the other the emery horn. There is an iron
 one is called the oil horn and the other the emery horn . There is an iron which is made like a
 horn. There is an iron which is made like a halberd point , square, & of very even steel, & well filed,
 halberd point, square, & of very even steel, & well filed , which is called the grateau, which serves to to
 very even steel, & well filed, which is called the grateau , which serves to to soften the traces of the
 grateau, which serves to to soften the traces of the file on sword guards & to give an edge to swords
 they have been ground, which is better than with a stone or a sharpening stone, which quite often makes scratches. To
 ground, which is better than with a stone or a sharpening stone , which quite often makes scratches. To make coupp swords
 furbisher. A is the bruisson B is the bloodstone The fustée is a square piece of wood three fingers in thickness,
 is fitted in the middle of the stick of the fustée to furbish. The fresil stick is of willow wood, which
 middle of the stick of the fustée to furbish. The fresil stick is of willow wood, which is to clean the rust
 with fresil, which is the iron scale falling at the farriers’ forge . scabbard bench a b D the baston a felinder
 which is the iron scale falling at the farriers’ forge. scabbard bench a b D the baston a felinder c the flin
 at the farriers’ forge. scabbard bench a b D the baston a felinder c the flin or thunder stone The furbisher buys his
 bench a b D the baston a felinder c the flin or thunder stone The furbisher buys his blades by the
 b D the baston a felinder c the flin or thunder stone The furbisher buys his blades by the dozen, which are
 of better steel & iron, but they are not as well-forged as swords from Vienne in pro Dauphiné. The Spanish ones
 Spanish ones are not as well ground coming from the forge , because they grind them with the foot, & this
 coming from the forge, because they grind them with the foot , & this is what makes them wavy. Blades from
 liard for his charcoal. Next, they pass it over a grindstone to make it cut, then lay it down on the
 to make it cut, then lay it down on the chameau , and with some pulverized emery, fine & soft as
 then lay it down on the chameau, and with some pulverized emery , fine & soft as flour, & mixed with oil
 to make it hold, they furbish the sword with the stick used to remove the traces of the grindstone, and then
 with the stick used to remove the traces of the grindstone , and then the clean the sword powell with the
 grindstone, and then the clean the sword powell with the emery and give it a drop or two of oil, which
 drop or two of oil, which they spread with the finger to give it luster. Having put the oil, they furbish
 put the oil, they furbish the sword again on the chameau with the felin, which is a thunderstone mounted in the
 they furbish the sword again on the chameau with the felin , which is a thunderstone mounted in the middle of
 again on the chameau with the felin, which is a thunderstone mounted in the middle of a stick like the fustée,
 thunderstone mounted in the middle of a stick like the fustée , and this stick is called the baton à felinder.
 stick like the fustée, and this stick is called the baton à felinder . Next, having passed it on the felin, they furbish
 the baton à felinder. Next, having passed it on the felin , they furbish it with chalk & the oil which
 having passed it on the felin, they furbish it with chalk & the oil which is on the sword. Next, they
 wipe it & go over it again, & furbish with dry chalk . And at the end, when they are ready mounted,
 are ready mounted, one gives them the edge with the gratteau . Ai Once furbished, one mounts it on the guards
 blade such that the whole ricasso is held in the hand , one conjectures that it will be just as heavy
 as heavy once mounted. One puts the blade in a vise between two pieces of wood, then with a file, they
 a vise between two pieces of wood, then with a file , they enlarge the opening of the guard if it
 & the pommel a piece of wood, & with a hammer , one beats on it to align & secure the
 to align & secure the pommel well. Then, with the hammer , one finishes the rivet when the pommel is well
 spoil the pommel. Next, one finishes the rivet with a file or chisel. And some make the b the rivet in
 pommel. Next, one finishes the rivet with a file or chisel . And some make the b the rivet in a
 ones 2 carolus. The end this is put either with nails , which are put on the sides of the cutting
 scabbard because the water enters through the joint of the nail . It is best to apply some rosin or glue
 the furbisher puts them on a small bench, called a scabbard bench , and with a e g plane small iron tool
 bench, called a scabbard bench, and with a e g plane small iron tool similar to that of the joiners’ bench,
 called a scabbard bench, and with a e g plane small iron tool similar to that of the joiners’ bench, they make it
 g plane small iron tool similar to that of the joiners’ bench , they make it hold firmly. Then, with ae plane
 joiners’ bench, they make it hold firmly. Then, with ae plane plane which is like a knife with two handles, one
 bench, they make it hold firmly. Then, with ae plane plane which is like a knife with two handles, one works
 firmly. Then, with ae plane plane which is like a knife with two handles , one works the wood roughly from the top, next
 the wood roughly from the top, next one passes the joiner’s plane on it the better to even it. Next, one scours
 it. Next, one scours it on the inside with a round plane, also mounted with two handles , then with a small narrow plane, one hollows &
 round plane, also mounted with two handles, then with a small narrow plane , one hollows & scrapes it half a foot toward
 levelled, one lays the sword on top, & with a black stone , one marks the width of the blade & the
 of the blade & the length, & then with a chisel , one cuts the excess. And one passes a joiner’s
 a chisel, one cuts the excess. And one passes a joiner’s plane to even it well, according to the mark. Next, one
 then they rub the stitching thoroughly with a piece of boxwood to cover & even it. From a good calf skin,
 are too thick, one thins them a little with a plane . If the skin is hard, one wets it in
 with black thread, one rubs it with a piece of boxwood or with a cloth, having daubed it a little in
 rubs it with a piece of boxwood or with a cloth , having daubed it a little in oil. The scabbard
 this, which is called making them pass, one takes a cauldron full of ashes , which one covers with thoroughly lit charcoal, & thus
 of water For the color of water, one passes a soft file on the guards to whiten them, then the burnisher. Next,
 soft file on the guards to whiten them, then the burnisher . Next, one makes them pass to blue until they
 one applies walnut olive oil all over them with a feather while they are cold, and next turns them over a
 them over a good charcoal fire that is on the furbishers’ furnace , without them touching the charcoal or the ash. And
 with galipot. Gilding One prepares the guards thoroughly with a soft, very soft, file such that there is nothing black left on any of
 while the guards are hot, one attaches them to a vise , & with some tweezers, one layers the gold, &
 hot, one attaches them to a vise, & with some tweezers , one layers the gold, & one sets it with
 from on top of the warm ashes with a small iron rod , which has been purposely made to go into the
 is completely well-burnished, one rubs it very well with a white linen cloth , and the gold needs to be thicker & stronger
 to prepare the guards & whiten them with a li file , a little coarser for than for gold. And one
 to double the silver foil, then separate it with a knife ; next, apply it to the guard with a small
 knife; next, apply it to the guard with a small tweezers & a small burnisher. And then, reheat & apply until
 to the guard with a small tweezers & a small burnisher . And then, reheat & apply until they are all
 with force, not with the bloodstone but with a strong burnisher . Just as the burnisher ought not to burnish gold.
 the bloodstone but with a strong burnisher. Just as the burnisher ought not to burnish gold. Mastic varnish dry in a
 puts in too much, & eau-de-vie, & heat in a varnished bowl the said oil, & when it begins to be very
 mastic & around one-third of the oil passed through a sieve l, and let reheat until it is melted, which will
 on hot ashes. Once all melted, try it on the knife , and if you see that it has too much
 fleas & blemishes. Once well chosen, pulverize it in a mortar and pass it through a very fine sieve, and next
 pulverize it in a mortar and pass it through a very fine sieve , and next mix it in oil, as is said.
 laid down cold on the panel with a very clean fingertip , & one needs to spread it vigorously. The Italians
 dry skin & crust. One lays the varnish with a finger so as make a lean layer, because when thick, it
 to work the earth, then make it thinner with the rake . And next, if it is dry, one needs to
 is dry, one needs to moisten it. Then, stretch the cord very close, and hit on the entire length of the
 very close, and hit on the entire length of the cord as with the back of a pruning knife, in order
 length of the cord as with the back of a pruning knife , in order that the cord marks a straight line,
 the back of a pruning knife, in order that the cord marks a straight line, the length of which you will
 of which you will un bord make holes with an iron stake where you will plant your rosemary. Behead & cut to
 up. Locksmith To tin nails well, and other work, they file their work very neatly. Then to clean it well &
 boil in vinegar, then they wipe it well with a linen cloth . Next, they heat it & pass some rosin over
 done, they melt some pure & fine tin in their estamiere , which is a little square iron box. And when
 rosin to burn the filth, & then they let the head of a nail or something similar soak a little, & having remained there
 it out and shake it, hitting the top with an iron to make the tin that is superfluous fall off, &
 that is superfluous fall off, & clean it with a small stick wrapped in tow . And if it is not well tinned, you will
 One puts them whole & not too ripe in a firkin that one fills with brine. Then, one serves them all
 and scarcely last. Birds Which have been fed by the rod do not whistle among the company of others if they
 which one has founded. One grinds it on a big stone , & with this one makes the cope of first
 le only needs to be reheated in the flame of straw , and molds very neatly. The earth which molds en
 it porous, if you do not rub well with a brush or your finger the piece to be molded, which should
 you do not rub well with a brush or your finger the piece to be molded, which should be well oiled.
 to mold all with one sand, be it in a frame or noyau, rather than in various mixed ones. One ought
 p, in thata charcoal fire which lights by itself, a crucible with the substance inside, and then blow & cover the
 with the substance inside, and then blow & cover the crucible with large charcoals & the mouth of the furnace with
 the crucible with large charcoals & the mouth of the furnace with bricks, and let it consume two or three feedings
 with large charcoals & the mouth of the furnace with bricks , and let it consume two or three feedings of
 two or three feedings of charcoal, which se fill the furnace above the crucible. At the end, stoke it to a
 feedings of charcoal, which se fill the furnace above the crucible . At the end, stoke it to a violent fire,
 &, having body, if you grind it very finely on porphyry or calcine it, reddening it several times in the fire,
 substance has been cast in it, it acquires in the mold comme a luster as if it were leaded or vitrified.
 bear such beautiful fruit. Cannons They are very difficult to bore when they are of metal because the substance is brittle
 & frangible. But one z ought not to push the borer with too great a force nor continue all in one
 than the ball in order to avoid the necessity of boring , because the substance is cast & expands & pushes
 because the substance is cast & expands & pushes the mold . If the borer, which should be neither like a
 is cast & expands & pushes the mold. If the borer , which should be neither like a swallow tail nor
 a point but be cut in the round like a wimble , if it breaks, one ought not to leave it
 the piece, & it will fall down. One needs to bore gently & at ease when the piece is of metal.
 melted, then let it rest & put it in another vessel to purge it of dregs. Gold color To quickly make
 these three things make strong resemblance. Gemstones You need to pestle your materials in a mortar of thick glass & encased
 resemblance. Gemstones You need to pestle your materials in a mortar of thick glass & encased & stuck with mastic into another mortar of
 thick glass & encased & stuck with mastic into another mortar of wood , in order that it does not break. This can
 break. This can serve for perfumers. & la t the pestle , also of glass. Mortar of glass and slab of
 for perfumers. & la t the pestle, also of glass. Mortar of glass and slab of glass for grinding Vitrified saltpeter Being melted
 t the pestle, also of glass. Mortar of glass and slab of glass for grinding Vitrified saltpeter Being melted with pebbles, it makes
 white. But before, one needs to calcine it on a hot tile or shovel . And that which will remain from the vapor, mix
 the white calcined pebbles. It is true that, in the little furnace , it does not clarify well. But for large panes
 the saltpeter on some clean thing place & it put glowing charcoals on it, and continue all over until it no longer
 you can. Calcine them three or 4 times in your four à vent , & extinguish them in water or vinegar. Next, take
 water or vinegar. Next, take a ℥ of them and pestle them in a totally pure copper mortar & with a
 take a ℥ of them and pestle them in a totally pure copper mortar & with a pestle of pure copper, and grind them
 them in a totally pure copper mortar & with a pestle of pure copper , and grind them until they become very fine &
 else, and grind everything together again very well in a bronze mortar . And on all of this, put in a gros
 & cast in sand. If you do not have a bronze mortar , grind with a mort in a kettle of pure
 have a bronze mortar, grind with a mort in a kettle of pure copper . One needs to reheat crucibles before putting in materials,
 in a kettle of pure copper. One needs to reheat crucibles before putting in materials, and put them in the fornaise
 crucibles before putting in materials, and put them in the fornaise or four à vent before making & increasing the fire.
 putting in materials, and put them in the fornaise or four à vent before making & increasing the fire. They are made in
 the minium. Emerald For ruby take gold leaf Raise your furnace by two tiles all around, because one needs more heat
 For ruby take gold leaf Raise your furnace by two tiles all around, because one needs more heat for making rubies
 ℥ of white calcined pebbles and put it in a mortar of glass , & having ground it coarsely with the pestle of
 mortar of glass, & having ground it coarsely with the pestle of the same, mix in grain the weight of a
 very well, then add in iii ℥ of minium, & pestle well again all together, & put it in the crucible,
 pestle well again all together, & put it in the crucible , which you will cover with an appropriate tile, a
 in the crucible, which you will cover with an appropriate tile , a bit thick, in order that heat reverberates better
 that heat reverberates better there. Then, set it on the grate of your furnace, having put under a few thick rounded
 better there. Then, set it on the grate of your furnace , having put under a few thick rounded squares. Next,
 the grate of your furnace, having put under a few thick rounded squares . Next, fill your furnace to the opening with charcoal,
 put under a few thick rounded squares. Next, fill your furnace to the opening with charcoal, so that it will be
 rounded squares. Next, fill your furnace to the opening with charcoal , so that it will be heaped, and let it
 kindle, and always maintain the heat evenly without letting the charcoal decrease. And for this effect, always make it so that
 And for this effect, always make it so that the furnace is heaped & full of charcoal, and maintain it thus
 it so that the furnace is heaped & full of charcoal , and maintain it thus for one day. The first
 put, on the edge of the opening of the glowing furnace , tiles, one against the other, for making the heat
 on the edge of the opening of the glowing furnace, tiles , one against the other, for making the heat reverberate.
 namely one weight of calcined pebbles on three of minium, pestling all separately in a copper mortar for emerald & in
 pebbles on three of minium, pestling all separately in a copper mortar for emerald & in an iron mortar for making topaz
 separately in a copper mortar for emerald & in an iron mortar for making topaz or amber color, with pestles identical to
 an iron mortar for making topaz or amber color, with pestles identical to the mortars. The emerald & the topaz are
 making topaz or amber color, with pestles identical to the mortars . The emerald & the topaz are of the same
 glass or enamels. If the mass is not colored enough, pestle it more in the iron mortar. Slightly burnt tartar mixed
 mass is not colored enough, pestle it more in the iron mortar . Slightly burnt tartar mixed among this makes beautiful yellow,
 no longer crackles or, to melt it better, in a four à vent . And cast it neatly on marble, then pestle it
 in a four à vent. And cast it neatly on marble , then pestle it & grind it very finely, then
 & grind it very finely, then put it in a crucible on as much saltpeter & let it boil, & mix
 them together until It cleans & purifies metal well. the crucible will be red. Next, cast it on marble, and you
 well. the crucible will be red. Next, cast it on marble , and you will have a substance white, hard &
 it will only have red veins. Always heat up your crucibles . One holds that rubified antimony makes jacinth. Topaz I
 three parts of minium, and the stone pulverized in a steel ver f mortar . It returned me a very beautiful yellow without any
 would be better to le pulverize the pumice in a glass mortar , because it & the minium make enough yellow by
 vinegar, & one heats, then one passes it through a cloth strainer . All medicinal gums dissolve in vinegar. Provisions for the
 dissolve in vinegar. Provisions for the work of Colchis 7 retorts 2 lb of ☿ One measure of coarse salt 6
 2 lb of ☿ One measure of coarse salt 6 terrines without lead 2 large unleaded pots for calcining 2 alembics for distilling
 measure of coarse salt 6 terrines without lead 2 large unleaded pots for calcining 2 alembics for distilling vinegar 4 pots of
 terrines without lead 2 large unleaded pots for calcining 2 alembics for distilling vinegar 4 pots of good vinegar 3 or
 unleaded pots for calcining 2 alembics for distilling vinegar 4 pots of good vinegar 3 or 4 lamps 2 lb of
 distilling vinegar 4 pots of good vinegar 3 or 4 lamps 2 lb of cotton One pair of small scissors For
 4 lamps 2 lb of cotton One pair of small scissors For the furnace A coffer with a stone ten square
 lb of cotton One pair of small scissors For the furnace A coffer with a stone ten square thumbs in size
 cotton One pair of small scissors For the furnace A coffer with a stone ten square thumbs in size and one
 and one foot thick, pierced in the middle 2 earthenware boxes or pots with a lid 2 small pipes of fer
 foot thick, pierced in the middle 2 earthenware boxes or pots with a lid 2 small pipes of fer blanc to evacuate the smoke
 2 earthenware boxes or pots with a lid 2 small pipes of fer blanc to evacuate the smoke from the furnace Rapeseed oil for
 pipes of fer blanc to evacuate the smoke from the furnace Rapeseed oil for the lamps to heat the furnace A
 evacuate the smoke from the furnace Rapeseed oil for the lamps to heat the furnace A fire-steel Ciment royal One lb
 the furnace Rapeseed oil for the lamps to heat the furnace A fire-steel Ciment royal One lb & a half of
 Rapeseed oil for the lamps to heat the furnace A fire-steel Ciment royal One lb & a half of vitriol As
 half of vitriol As much saltpeter As much rock alum Glass vessels The glass vessel must be made like a pear or
 As much saltpeter As much rock alum Glass vessels The glass vessel must be made like a pear or round pyramid, of
 pear or round pyramid, of the thickness of a small knife back, round on the bottom without bending like vials, its
 small knife back, round on the bottom without bending like vials , its opening of such a size that a Dutch
 like vials, its opening of such a size that a Dutch quill can just about fit in, & with a lip at
 it whatever quantity you like, and put it into a bottle afterward, well stoppered, & leave to wilt in there in
 or four days, and next express the whole into another vessel , & into this very same substance of wine, put
 the sun for a month. Next, distil it through an alembic . Ne And take ii ounces of this water in
 take ii ounces of this water in two or three spoonfuls of white wine, but this is for the elderly. Paul
 & once they begin to curdle, stir continuously with a new wooden spatula t for as long as it takes you to say
 little tepid, not rubbing, but as if pressing with a wet linen cloth , and you shall wipe it similarly aff with a
 cloth, and you shall wipe it similarly aff with a fine linen cloth , & next put the ointment, over which you can
 or swollen hemorrhoidal veins, one covers the end of the tube with a piece of chicken gut, & one folds it
 a little with bile & put it p into a glass bottle , & if you want to keep it for a
 Earwax If you take enough with the tip of an ear picker & you pass it through the foam of urine, which
 For recognizing well their difference and their true color by candlelight , you need to put your candle behind a crystal
 their true color by candlelight, you need to put your candle behind a crystal mirror or a glass globe or jar
 by candlelight, you need to put your candle behind a crystal mirror or a glass globe or jar full of water, because
 to put your candle behind a crystal mirror or a glass globe or jar full of water, because this light is like sunlight. For
 pure gold ℞ put common salt into aquafortis in a matrass , and let it rest two hours without putting it
 with wax heated in hot water, but in pressing, the mold becomes clumsy & makes itself false. When you have the
 And, turning the axle either by yourself or by a clock spring, your invention will be effected. Turtles The males have
 the beginnings of sprouts. One needs to nimbly, with a very sharp penknife , cut in the shape of a shield a little
 cleft thus . Next, separate, with the point of the penknife , the bark & open it from the cleft in
 sprout, bind it well & wrap it entirely with a slip of linen or very soft thread, so that there is nothing uncovered
 & wrap it entirely with a slip of linen or very soft thread , so that there is nothing uncovered but the leaf,
 from the moment that it is taken, its cage with canvas . One needs to feed it the first day, giving
 into the hand & opening its beak, & with a small wooden pin , put it in its throat & make it swallow.
 made like a barn, like those for calendras, doubled with green cloth , because it fears the cold. And for making it
 accustomed to eating when first it is put in the cage , one needs to give it ants with soil at
 give it ants with soil at the bottom of the cage , to make it accustomed to pecking puys luy, and
 some worms which come from old meal or from beneath kneading troughs or mills, which the nightingale is fond of, put some
 come from old meal or from beneath kneading troughs or mills , which the nightingale is fond of, put some on
 which the nightingale is fond of, put some on your hat attached with a pin or otherwise, in order that it
 fond of, put some on your hat attached with a pin or otherwise, in order that it wiggles. And at five
 in the ground & put in some worms and your device of little crossed sticks . It will be anxious for you to leave so
 most excellent sand one can find for molding in a frame , because it is appropriate for silver & for gold,
 the sand finely & evaporates que when one reheats the frames . Sal ammoniac water is very good, is excellent, for
 it is so dry that it can hardly endure a hammer , but this mixture softens it like lead. Casting in
 following mixture. The feather alum mixture cannot corrupt anything. The mold needs to be red, & one needs to press it
 be red, & one needs to press it promptly with iron presses . The shell of crabs & crayfish are awkward to
 & delicate. The bodies are extracted more easily from the mold . The feet are cast in many times pieces. Tiles
 have been quite red for one or two hours, & pestle them & pass them finely through a sieve. The little
 hours, & pestle them & pass them finely through a sieve . The little turtles, having just come out of the
 and those which do not easily crumble away with your nail , and clean it well from powder & filth before
 is from stone, therefore take it raw of this kind. Pestle it well as finely as possible, and pass it through
 as finely as possible, and pass it through the finest sieve or sleeve that you can. Being thus p fine, put
 as possible, and pass it through the finest sieve or sleeve that you can. Being thus p fine, put it, in
 p fine, put it, in a good amount, in a cauldron or skillet over an open flame, & as it begins
 put it, in a good amount, in a cauldron or skillet over an open flame, & as it begins to heat
 it, put it, as finely ground raw powder, in a cauldron on ash a clear flame, & do not make it
 too strong nor too violent. Always stir with a long stick to avoid the vapor, turning it around the cauldron &
 long stick to avoid the vapor, turning it around the cauldron & in the middle, in a figure 8. At the
 to throw off some bubbles at the edge of the cauldron . And finally, it will become like liquid &, as
 sooner it will set. Catching lizards and snakes Take a stick and attach a string at the end which has a
 Catching lizards and snakes Take a stick and attach a string at the end which has a knot eyelet slip eyelet
 inside, pull. The lizard is more tedious to catch by hand than the snake & bites without letting go & grips
 the snake & bites without letting go & grips like pincers . Snakes can be caught by hand, provided that it
 go & grips like pincers. Snakes can be caught by hand , provided that it is covered by a thick woollen
 by hand, provided that it is covered by a thick woollen cloth , for the teeth of the snake stay in the
 cloth, for the teeth of the snake stay in the cloth & cannot pierce like they would with a linen. The
 half as much as of the brick, namely two full crucibles of plaster, one of brick & a half of feather
 great firing without getting spoiled. Feather alum is awkward to pestle , and it does not pass through the sieve. Thus,
 awkward to pestle, and it does not pass through the sieve . Thus, one needs to grind it finely on marble.
 the sieve. Thus, one needs to grind it finely on marble . And the white one que v in powder that
 sell is good. It is ground better su in the mortar by pestling & dragging the pestle, thus you will render
 good. It is ground better su in the mortar by pestling & dragging the pestle, thus you will render it very
 better su in the mortar by pestling & dragging the pestle , thus you will render it very fine. Crocum ferri
 very fine. Crocum ferri must be set ablaze in a glassmaker’s fournaise for four days. Molds can only be used once because
 be set ablaze in a glassmaker’s fournaise for four days. Molds can only be used once because for delicate things, like
 France, near Rouan. The feather alum for our sand is pestled in a mortar and is further ground on marble, especially
 The feather alum for our sand is pestled in a mortar and is further ground on marble, especially since one cannot
 is pestled in a mortar and is further ground on marble , especially since one cannot think of passing it finely
 since one cannot think of passing it finely through the sieve , for it is so fat & wooly that it
 burn and feather alum resists the fire. To enclose the molds , when you em throw onto the things to mold
 of feather alum la little bit, for it softens the molds with its softness. Once reheated, do not pulverize it on
 of the cast & gives more binding. When the sand mold , estant having set, retains the color of brick and
 reddish, it is firmer. To hold the cores, some use wire of the same metal that they cast because it reduces with & melts with its counterpart, but
 the core changes, some find it better to r use iron wire , sharpened at the ends, because it holds firmer &
 it makes a hole, one covers it with a small chisel . Eau-de-vie prevents the sand from becoming porous & does
 does not make little holes on the edges of the mold if the thing to mold is well dampened with it.
 & bubbles are not made on the side of the mold , which is thick, but at the edges, which are
 is. It is appropriate for casting flat things in a frame . For round things, it is not as fitting nor
 long veins. It is very soft, such that with a fingernail one can scrape it, & makes a powder like our
 a piece the size of a walnut in a large bottle of water, and thus one mixes it & reduces it
 impurities. Then, one puts it to cook neatly in a pot earthen vessel in the fornaise of those who make pots,
 Then, one puts it to cook neatly in a pot earthen vessel in the fornaise of those who make pots, and one
 to cook neatly in a pot earthen vessel in the fornaise of those who make pots , and one leaves it there until the pots are
 pot earthen vessel in the fornaise of those who make pots , and one leaves it there until the pots are
 who make pots, and one leaves it there until the pots are cooked. Next, one mixes it again with sal ammoniac
 one empties the muddy & clean water into a separate vessel . Again, one puts the same water on top &
 taken away the water by tilting it or with a sponge , one takes the residue and one dries it. Then,
 with the other water sand, one uses it in a frame , where, if it retracts, it is a sign that
 cast in it. Feather alum should be reheated in a cauldron crucible covered with a tile in a strong flame fire
 in it. Feather alum should be reheated in a cauldron crucible covered with a tile in a strong flame fire of
 should be reheated in a cauldron crucible covered with a tile in a strong flame fire of charcoals, in order that
 which does not burn. This is done either in the goldsmith’s forge , surrounded with bricks, or in a fourneau à vent
 not burn. This is done either in the goldsmith’s forge, surrounded with bricks , or in a fourneau à vent with fusion fire,
 in the goldsmith’s forge, surrounded with bricks, or in a fourneau à vent with fusion fire, so that the sand remains long enough
 with fusion fire, so that the sand remains long enough crucible remains red for a quarter of an hour. This is
 dried out. # # After your feather alum is cooled, pestle it in a mortar, then grind it on marble, and
 After your feather alum is cooled, pestle it in a mortar , then grind it on marble, and it will be
 cooled, pestle it in a mortar, then grind it on marble , and it will be rendered into very fine wooly
 burned as other things do, which is a beautiful invention. Pestle it in the mortar by dragging the pestle, for the
 do, which is a beautiful invention. Pestle it in the mortar by dragging the pestle, for the flying dust could enter
 beautiful invention. Pestle it in the mortar by dragging the pestle , for the flying dust could enter your throat or
 you reason to scratch yourself well. Put it in the mortar a little at a time to avoid the flying dust.
 dust. It is better to grind it thus, in the mortar , dragging the pestle, than on marble, for where c
 better to grind it thus, in the mortar, dragging the pestle , than on marble, for where c it spreads, &
 it thus, in the mortar, dragging the pestle, than on marble , for where c it spreads, & in the mortar,
 on marble, for where c it spreads, & in the mortar , it collects on all sides. Render it very fine
 & soft to the touch. Clay, to make circles around molds , should be very fatty & handleable, and serves only
 handleable, and serves only to make the surrounding of the molds . Thus, one ought only to choose the quite fatty
 it moderately with some water, & keep it in a pit or in a terrine, and make numerous holes with a
 water, & keep it in a pit or in a terrine , and make numerous holes with a stick in it,
 or in a terrine, and make numerous holes with a stick in it, which fill with water, in order to keep
 Italians put in, because one often has to put the tools in the mouth, which are better in boxwood or bone
 is melted, they have sulfur that is melted in a spoon or crucible, & they pour some in the melted wax.
 they have sulfur that is melted in a spoon or crucible , & they pour some in the melted wax. And
 warming it, such that having molded, it melts in the mold gently like butter, without leaving any pustule or bubble in
 strong a fire. If Molding wax In order that your mold grips without repelling in any place on a shape or
 lukewarm water so that it does not repel the oil. Bellows of the forge It is better that they should be
 that it does not repel the oil. Bellows of the forge It is better that they should be fixed through the
 can lightly secure them from above. It is necessary that blast-pipes be 4 fingers above the sole of the forge. Snakes
 that blast-pipes be 4 fingers above the sole of the forge . Snakes for molding When you take them for molding,
 can no longer eat. You can keep them in a barrel full of bran or even better of earth, in a
 better of earth, in a cool place, or in a glass bottle . And give them any live frog or other little
 an open notch, you will make it jump with the twisted cord of the saw . Or else, if it is small, put it on
 mouth remains alive, and when you pierce it with a needle to fit it to the mold, it moves & spoils
 pierce it with a needle to fit it to the mold , it moves & spoils & undoes everything. Therefore, to
 to put them to death entirely, put it in a bottle of good vinegar & some eau-de-vie. And do thus with
 want to keep them, you can put them in a pipe full of earth in a garden outdoors. But your pipe
 pipe full of earth in a garden outdoors. But your pipe must be covered with archal wire, for otherwise it would
 a garden outdoors. But your pipe must be covered with archal wire , for otherwise it would climb & go up very
 for otherwise it would climb & go up very high. Molding You could mold the thing and animal already cast, but
 would climb & go up very high. Molding You could mold the thing and animal already cast, but it never comes
 from nature, with which you can make four or five molds . Rock & grotto One needs to pestle white &
 four or five molds. Rock & grotto One needs to pestle white & yellow marcasites & diverse kinds of minerals, &
 from being bitten before catching them, and having put your foot on top of it, as close to the neck as
 S. I saw that the one who taught me to mold them did not take this into account, & assured me
 some filth, he would only dig the earth with a knife , & bury his hand in fresh & damp earth,
 as it will be afterward if it does not eat. Molding it very soon after it is caught is best, before
 only a quarter of an hour before you want to mold . When it has eaten something, by tormenting it, it
 And if, after having eaten something, it is thus pressed underfoot , this pains it greatly & hurts it. If it
 it. If it is wounded, it will not eat willingly. Molds There is nothing better for opening them up than to
 it seems to be imbued, will detach itself, like grease. Molds become stronger in cold water. And hot water would dissolve
 dissolve in the water. Wheat oil Is made on a blade of iron reddened in the fire . And the oil drips off, which is appropriate for
 for too long, for it becomes brittle and calcines. Reheating molds The frames readily dry out & do not reheat. For
 long, for it becomes brittle and calcines. Reheating molds The frames readily dry out & do not reheat. For reheating is
 actually for the second time to redden & inflame the molds in the fire, and drying out is to let the
 in the fire, and drying out is to let the molds dry themselves or to make their dampness evaporate by placing
 in front of a flaming fire or a charcoal one. Noyau molds readily reheat & frame molds dry out. Latten smoke It
 fire or a charcoal one. Noyau molds readily reheat & frame molds dry out. Latten smoke It is good to reheat in
 Latten smoke It is good to reheat in it the molds for casting latten , for this gyellow filth, which appears nevertheless to refill
 for this gyellow filth, which appears nevertheless to refill the molds , casts very neatly, being of the same nature. For
 necessary for you to make the contour for containing your molds . But take heed that it is not too soft,
 if half dry, that ilit does not attach to your hands , because otherwise it would attach to your work. Always
 not crack at all. It is more appropriate than a blade of lead . Iron wire You also need to have provision of
 need to have provision of different sizes, according to the molds that you want to make; thick like cord, smaller ,
 spinet, for the small works. Once de reheated, you make clamps from it to close the molds, & points, like needles
 de reheated, you make clamps from it to close the molds , & points, like needles of different lengths, according to
 the animal to be molded & keep it held down. Needles would not be good for this because their points have
 of two chestnuts of pulverized sal ammoniac suffices in a pot of water, and to the tongue, you find the water
 ammoniac suffices in a pot of water, and to the tongue , you find the water moderately salty, for too much
 of lead & tin, one pulverizes sanguine, & with some small bristle brushes , one rubs the molded ework. Crab and crayfish These
 very delicate things. Lizards When one takes them with two fingers from the sides of the head, at the level of
 end of its lower mandible with the end of the fingernail , & next, with the upper mandible, he bites the
 fingernail, & next, with the upper mandible, he bites the nail , but he cannot pass through, but he clenches very
 rougher scales than the female lizards & show better. like pincers Composition of sand Once everything is reheated as said above,
 everything is reheated as said above, take four 4 full crucibles of plaster, two 2 of brick, & one of feather
 & one of feather alum. Do not pass through the sieve to mix may because the alum would not pass. Mix
 may because the alum would not pass. Mix with your hands until neither one nor the other, neither white nor red,
 at all so much feather alum, because it softens the molds . Take heed also that your sand is not hot
 want to mix it with water, for this les makes molds too soft & breakable. You may sometimes diminish the quantity
 if it cracks, & in order that the part of pestled tiles holds up, with the feather alum, which you can
 bond. For tempering sand You need to have a big basin full of water to q soak the molds to open
 a big basin full of water to q soak the molds to open them, a flagon full of common water, a
 water to q soak the molds to open them, a flagon full of common water, a lead bowl for tempering your
 to open them, a flagon full of common water, a lead bowl for tempering your sand, a small wooden spoon to collect
 water, a lead bowl for tempering your sand, a small wooden spoon to collect the wetted sand in the bowl. The big
 small wooden spoon to collect the wetted sand in the bowl . The big basin is pour tr To make handles
 to collect the wetted sand in the bowl. The big basin is pour tr To make handles for your large oil
 big basin is pour tr To make handles for your large oil paintbrushes , if you do not have large enough feather quills,
 large oil paintbrushes, if you do not have large enough feather quills , take two of them, & slit them, & join
 take four parts of
 one of feather alum. Mix them all together with your hands that it in such a way that one cannot discern
 for the feather alum, which should be ground in a mortar Putting to death the animal for molding You need to
 it in taking it. And, having put it in a glass bottle d with bran, or in a barrel full half full
 in a glass bottle d with bran, or in a barrel full half full of fresh & damp earth, if you
 it to death in this way. Place it in a clean bottle or vessel so that it would collect no dust. And put inside
 and then arrange it thus. Now, put enough in a glass , & soak & continually keep in it the head
 beaten, such that it is handleable without attaching to the hands nor the work, make a lasagna or like a cake
 like a cake of this earth equally flattened with a round stick which pastry makers use, which should be a little thicker than a thumb.
 which it commonly turns itself. And first, with a good needle , pierce it from underneath in the middle of the
 to u the top bone of the head. Retract the needle , & in its place & its hole, put the
 needle, & in its place & its hole, put the point of an iron wire of such a length that it suffices to hold the
 moves into the inside & when you put in the point , pull it out with a point the edge of
 put in the point , pull it out with a point the edge of your small pincers, & arrange it as
 pull it out with a point the edge of your small pincers , & arrange it as it was. Push the other
 it as it was. Push the other end of the point in the cake of clay. Thus, the head will be
 sand, put secure the legs & the corp with little points of iron wire , having already made the first hole with a very
 having already made the first hole with a very sharp needle . Do the same on the body parts that you
 that you will deem necessary, arranging making sure that the points passing through the animal are fixed in the cake of
 beyond the body of the animal by a Take a fine needle of steel , & which is the sharpest possible, in order that,
 that, making with it the first hole to place the points of iron , it passes without forcing anything, & by its roughness
 or pull out the skin. Next, put in a thickish point of iron in thick places & thin ones in thin places. But
 a secret to not plant, in the first go, the point passed through the animal in the slab of earth, for
 in the skin of the snake, and by taking the point out, it replaces the skin in its original state. When
 skin in its original state. When you put again the points you have already used, clean them well of rust so
 looking sideways. For this effect, pierce the head on a solid plank or table & , making the point pass through the bottom of
 on a solid plank or table & , making the point pass through the bottom of the throat, s’arrestan entering into
 to. And take heed that it is necessary that these points be of the most delicate iron wire possible which can
 one needs different thicknesses of these, because il de the points which are put in the body & in thicker places,
 the ones of the legs & thin parts, where the needles ought to be subtle & delicate, almost like the thickest
 to be joined to the body, do not put the point there, not to corrupt it. But place wax, as much
 everything well together in a circle, then, with a big knife , with which you have cut your cake to the
 close it as you see in b. Then, with a small curved instrument , mark on the inside of the circle the thickness
 the circle the thickness you want to give to the mold , which will be for a common snake as thick
 carefully arranged, moisten well everywhere with good eau-de-vie, with a paintbrush , the body of the animal which is uncovered. For
 at the back & in the thick sides of the mold , but on the edges. And as soon as you
 promptly. And wet it thus. and make sure that the point is longish, depending on how much you want to elevate
 Tempering the sand and molding the first cast Take a bowl of leaded earth of such size that it can hold the tempered sand
 tempered sand which will be needed de to fill your mold in one go, which is mei better than in two
 unjoin. Et pour pl Therefore, for this effect, take several bowls of different size which have a lip , to cast better. In these, pour some common fountain
 for casting gold & silver, the water being in your bowl , mix put y your sand in it & not
 that il, while stirring & mixing it promptly with a wooden spoon , it does not become thicker than clear mustard. And
 thicker than clear mustard. And thus, first cast into your mold lethe lighter part, qui es as is always at the
 that you made. And do not forget to shake the mold affin while casting, in order that the wetted sand runs
 wetted sand runs & enters well everywhere. Also, tip your mold up on the side of the head, which is higher
 head, which is higher than the body, and thus your mold will have the same thickness, & you will spare sand.
 And leave it to dry a little, & separate your mold from the cake of earth, which also de will be
 molding right away, and trim the excess with a big knife , giving || to it the long shape of a
 of a mandore. Rasche If you can, fill your half mold in one go & with la pre one tempered batch;
 water. If you do not fill in one go your mold tempered with tempered sand, take heed to stir your second
 p surface of the first, p by mixing with your spoon or spatula with which you temper it. Second cast Scrape
 of the first, p by mixing with your spoon or spatula with which you temper it. Second cast Scrape & cut
 cast Scrape & cut also away the back of the mold , which is always the weakest, and adapt it cleanly
 without changing. Sal ammoniac water is not necessary to small molds , which require neither a big nor long fire to
 backbone, and the entire top part, and the len half- mold where it is enclosed has set and is hard enough,
 bottom part & side of the belly, now with a knife & tant at the thickest places, & then with a
 & tant at the thickest places, & then with a penknife , where the most delicate parts are enclosed, such as
 say, widening on the outside, in order that the second mold that you will cast on it can come out well,
 blow on top & wipe each part, by wiping with tiny hog bristle brushes , slightly moistened by the end with a little saliva,
 🝋 With this done, dip le rev your mold your mold , for the length of a paternoster in water, not
 to it. Having therefore thus dipped the reverse of your mold in the water, take a paintbrush especially dedicated to this
 the reverse of your mold in the water, take a paintbrush especially dedicated to this & anoint it with it, anoint
 with it, anoint with oil the whole surface of the mold , except the animal, which must in no way touch
 retrace well & to anoint with the point of a paintbrush between the parts & through all the delicate parts. And
 the oil is imbibed, dip the mo reverse of the mold , as mentioned, in water, & you will see the
 animals like big ones, except that you need to make delicate points of of fil cist cittern strings , both long & short. remove with your small flat
 cist cittern strings, both long & short. remove with your small flat pincers , all the points. And then, + now with However,
 & short. remove with your small flat pincers, all the points . And then, + now with However, leave the point
 the points. And then, + now with However, leave the point of the throat, so that it serves as a clue
 uncover, and follow the rest through the trace of the points . # And if some bit of nail from a
 from a tail, or from another should separate from the mold , put y between the two a small grain of
 the two a small grain of wax, & with the point of a hot iron wire , join it, then adapt your mold with a knife,
 of a hot iron wire, join it, then adapt your mold with a knife, & make notches on its sides so
 iron wire, join it, then adapt your mold with a knife , & make notches on its sides so that the
 to it.🝋 This thus prepared, place your de first half- mold on the cake of earth clay, & put the circle
 thickness similar to the first. Then, with another rather thickish paintbrush , moisten well everywhere the uncovered half & belly of
 cast it in thrusts and by blowing & moving the mold as you did for the first one, making sure that
 remove the circle & the clay cake. And, with a knife , arrange your two molds uniformly together in a long
 the clay cake. And, with a knife, arrange your two molds uniformly together in a long shape of a mandore, as
 because of the cast. Then, dip a little the whole mold evenly, at the level of the joints, in water, for
 the half of the animal remaining in one of the molds , for pulling it sometimes from one side & sometimes
 breaking any of it, or also spoiling something from the mold . Et The latter being empty, retire rejoin the two
 reheat them, make the gate & vents, & place the clamps . As for the animal, so that it does not
 to mold in the same day the 4 or 5 molds that you can do, because these corrupt animals in themselves
 animals in themselves stink within one day. Having left your molds one or two es days to dry, for they stay
 have made your second cast, were you to leave your mold for one day or a night without opening it, you
 a strong & hard set, you would not dip your mold in water, it would not unjoin at all. But as
 at all. But as you dip the reverse of the mold in water, the imbibed oil collects at the top &
 joints & makes it separate. However, take heed your second mold is of good thickness & that it is hard enough
 harden if it has set well. Then, take your two molds , joined with a rough linen cloth in order to
 set well. Then, take your two molds, joined with a rough linen cloth in order to have a better grip, and separate them
 join it & on the reverse, strengthen the joints with clamps . Next, you can repair the faults with small chisels.
 with clamps. Next, you can repair the faults with small chisels . if you want, which will be enough, or else
 porous. This done, mects join tthe two halves of your mold & strengthen the joints, putting around these some small clamps
 mold & strengthen the joints, putting around these some small clamps of iron wire of this shape. They prevent the molds
 clamps of iron wire of this shape. They prevent the molds from deforming & corrupting while reheating. This is the shape
 & corrupting while reheating. This is the shape of the clamps Make the cast, reheat the molds, &c Note about everything
 the shape of the clamps Make the cast, reheat the molds , &c Note about everything above |-| If your snake
 and next it happens that when you have cast your mold tempered sand on it, & it has set, it ends
 so weak that it will easily be removed with a small point & will not have set with the first hardened one.
 hardened one. Note that one needs more feather alum for molds that should be reheated, like those for gold & silver
 are thinner, cut everything which is outside, & reheat the mold so well that what remained inside burns, then pass some
 because it is soft & malleable & obedient, & the mold , having set, is so firm that, because of this,
 that, because of this, the imprint will not be spoiled. Mold reheating After your molds have been reheated le & cleaned,
 the imprint will not be spoiled. Mold reheating After your molds have been reheated le & cleaned, casting soonest is best,
 recognize it It can only be good to let the mold die down a little from the outside so long as,
 the quarter part of lead. And make sure that your mold is hottish, such that you can hold it in your
 is hottish, such that you can hold it in your hand when you want to cast. As for the alloyed tin,
 it would not be appropriate. For giving venting to the mold In addition to your vents, if your es plant is
 your es plant is very fine, you can pass a thread through the clay circle, rather than casting with a needle,
 thread through the clay circle, rather than casting with a needle , & make sure it passes through the plant. And
 make sure it passes through the plant. And with the thread burning like the plant, a hole will remain which will
 will give air & venting, to help clean. Reheating the noyau molds After your molds have their gate, vents & clamps, as
 venting, to help clean. Reheating the noyau molds After your molds have their gate, vents & clamps, as is said, make
 noyau molds After your molds have their gate, vents & clamps , as is said, make at the end of the
 clamps, as is said, make at the end of the forge en, or in some clean place, a surrounding of bricks,
 and fill it with large half-lit charcoals. And place your molds on top, and leave the charcoals thus to kindle by
 thus half-lit large charcoals on top & blow with your little bellows until they are warmed. And thus, little by little, invigorate
 little by little, invigorate the fire, without haste, until your molds are quite red on the outside & the inside. If
 for this reason, one needs to burn it in the mold , & when you look through the gate, & through
 look through the gate, & through it, you see the molds are very red & inflamed inside, this will be your
 it is the case. If there is nothing in the mold that needs burning, it will be enough that they are
 it is for casting tin. They reheat better in a reverberatory furnace . Do not pull out your reheated molds from the
 better in a reverberatory furnace. Do not pull out your reheated molds from the fire before they have cooled themselves, & take
 is necessary beforehand to make gates & vents & place clamps . Take care not to heat the fire in one
 the fire in one go, for fear f that your molds crack inside. They are reheated enough when the entire hole
 reheat two times &, if there is nothing in the mold that needs despouiller burning, simply because it does not release
 burning, simply because it does not release well. All the molds of flowers are reheated two times, first for burning the
 beginning, reheat with some charcoals, gently lit, and put your noyau molds flat on the charcoals surrounded by bricks. Frame molds are
 your noyau molds flat on the charcoals surrounded by bricks. Frame molds are reheated on a grate. Molding bouquets, plants, and flowers
 charcoals surrounded by bricks. Frame molds are reheated on a grate . Molding bouquets, plants, and flowers One needs to mold
 immediately in good eau-de-vie & then put them in your tempered sand mold , like snakes. For which one needs no release, for
 snakes. For which one needs no release, for while the molds are being reheateds, the plant burns, which does not happen
 would not be malleable for taking out of thee the mold , which is tenacious, as are natural animals, which are
 sand, do not cast it in the middle of the mold but on the sides, so that the sand descends gently
 If your tempered sand sounds like water falling in the mold , it is a sign that is too thin. Make
 Casting for gold and silver It is necessary that the molds be fiery red & ablaze when you cast in gold
 substance flows better when at ease and without shaking the mold , & does not become as porous. A way to
 in the earth, some feed them des in quantity in barrels filled with earth & covered with manure . Others make several molds in summer, because with one
 filled with earth & covered with manure. Others make several molds in summer, because with one snake, you can make four
 reheated as said pu, en noyau & in two half molds , as said, then they cast it in wax. In
 hot. And when you want to cast, in removing your crucible from the fire, throw in two or three grains of
 But it will not be so neat. Next, dip your mold into water, & with a point, release it carefully so
 neat. Next, dip your mold into water, & with a point , release it carefully so that nothing is spoiled. Make
 release it carefully so that nothing is spoiled. Make your cast a bit longer. If the material is very thin, one
 or tin en noyau in the aforesaid sand, reheat your mold once, only if there is nothing to burn inside. But
 and tin, let it cool until you can hold the tip of your finger in the gate without burning yourself, but you find a
 to carry them from afar, soak their stems in a bottle of water or, better still, wine. Make, first, a wax stick pointed
 plant. This done, set it aside neatly. And arrange your mold of t circle & shape of clay, as you have
 & moisten it very carefully with good eau-de-vie with a paintbrush . Then pass the wire stem through the end of
 carefully with good eau-de-vie with a paintbrush. Then pass the wire stem through the end of the earthen mandore, in order that
 the top of the such plant. And having secured the wire stem well, promptly pour wetted your wetted sand, much thinner than
 more feather alum, it can only be better. Thus, your mold will be in one piece and it will not be
 weak & delicate flower, cast plant it upright with the wax peg because the sand will always cast lift it up, it
 Do not forget to adapt two vent holes with two small sticks , starting at the foot of the cast, which is
 of the cast, which is the pointed end of the wax peg . If the plants are so delicate that they rise
 tempered sand, one can fix and contain them with a thread passed through the circle of the mold with a needle.
 them with a thread passed through the circle of the mold with a needle. The more delicate the flower is, the
 thread passed through the circle of the mold with a needle . The more delicate the flower is, the thinner the
 delicate the flower is, the thinner the sand must be. Mold en noyau . For making the ashes of flowers and plants leave
 noyau. For making the ashes of flowers and plants leave molds Some mix put quicksilver inside it. But, if it is
 It is true that if it is to empty the mold of some animal which is thickish & which has big
 & solder them onto a thick stalk drawn through the wire drawing plate . If the burnt thing has left some filth or
 or ash, let it cool a little, & with an iron wire wrapped in cotton that can bend according to the cavities that you have
 out, clean & blow out this defect, or with a soft brush or a cut paintbrush. Daisies They can be cast well
 out this defect, or with a soft brush or a cut paintbrush . Daisies They can be cast well in gold. But
 or medals of lead Rub them with oil with a paintbrush , but let it be so lightly that your medal
 snakes If you need to cut some snake inside the mold to burn it, cut it far from the entrance of
 burn it, cut it far from the entrance of the mold lest blood remains, for it would make a crust that
 the same quicksilver & would remove the impressions from your mold . Snails Those which are found in the sea &
 flashing and barbs from things molded à noyau If your molds are of good plaster which withstands well the fire, &
 & they will not crack at all, especially if, with presses , they are squeezed well between two boards or in
 especially if, with presses, they are squeezed well between two boards or in a vessel filled with ashes or sand, &
 they are squeezed well between two boards or in a vessel filled with ashes or sand , & in this way they will make no flashing.
 they do make some, you can remove it with a burin that one calls chaple, which has a tip like a
 you can remove it with a burin that one calls chaple , which has a tip like a small chisel. For
 one calls chaple, which has a tip like a small chisel . For grottos The old vine stocks Stones made from
 stuf, charcoal, the compound of tin & fine latten, paper pestled & mixed with pestled glass, cork, heated parchment, white coral
 of tin & fine latten, paper pestled & mixed with pestled glass, cork, heated parchment, white coral are appropriate for making
 of looking-glass tin, which has a shiny luster. One finely pestles diverse sorts of marcasites which one washes to cleanse them
 mixed with certain brittle lumps which are pulverized under the hammer , which are very beautiful pulverized on grottos. Looking-glass tin
 natural for casting in gold & in silver. Casting in frames The same sand that was used in the reheated noyaulx,
 I pestled the
 I pestled the pieces which had come out of noyau molds in
 I pestled the pieces which had come out of noyau molds in a mortar, dragging the pestle because this sand is
 pieces which had come out of noyau molds in a mortar , dragging the pestle because this sand is very soft.
 come out of noyau molds in a mortar, dragging the pestle because this sand is very soft. I did not pass
 is very soft. I did not pass it through the sieve because the feather alum mixed throughout, which binds it, would
 binds it, would not pass, but I ground finely upon marble what seemed to me too coarse. And having prepared it
 of sal ammoniac, as much as two walnuts, in a bottle of common water , the same size as a bottle in which one
 a bottle of common water, the same size as a bottle in which one boils tisane , or in a good pot of water, so that
 a bottle in which one boils tisane, or in a good pot of water , so that you find d the water moderately salty.
 a glass of sal ammoniac, two othe two au t silver spoonfuls of eau-de-vie. J’a Having thus moistened the sand in such
 easily, I sprinkled my medal with charcoal pulverized with a file , to rid it of oil and all other grease,
 medal & molded it, and the female part of the frame once filled, I marked & made a line on the
 the nearby sand as well. In order that the second frame s’em take the imprint thereupon to denote the place for
 making the cast, having filled the female part of the frame being filled I uncovered the outline of the medal and
 the male part with sand. Once made I separated the frame and did not hit the corners of the d medal
 it esp crumble. Rather, I struck the back of the frame , retaining the obverse of the medal on the bottom,
 thus, I would have waited to remove it until the frames had been dried out over fire. I lit the a
 I lit the a row of charcoals between two little trivets of iron in the form that you see, and put the back
 see, and put the back the & reverse of the frames thereupon & the imprint on top, because in this way,
 the sand used for the noyau before using it in frame , until it no longer contracts. Excellent sand Take a
 when it is melted gently. Note that I filled the frame before pressing it and did not hit it at all,
 but rather pressed it only with the strength of my hands , because hitting it makes it go awry. Secure your
 hands, because hitting it makes it go awry. Secure your frame that it does not shift at all, & if you
 a third part. Do not forget the vents. To dry frames is to rid them of humidity so that they no
 smoke, being nevertheless very hot. Reheating is to redden the frame , which is done for gold and for silver. As
 of lead, fine & new. I melted it in a crucible until it was, a little as it were, a little
 & not before, I smoked with the smoke of a tallow candle all sides of my frames & imprint & cast &
 the smoke of a tallow candle all sides of my frames & imprint & cast & everything. I set my frame,
 frames & imprint & cast & everything. I set my frame , well joined, in the press. I drew my crucible
 & everything. I set my frame, well joined, in the press . I drew my crucible from the fire. I left
 my frame, well joined, in the press. I drew my crucible from the fire. I left it a little pass so
 pass so that the redness at the bottom of the crucible could die down. And wanting to cast, I threw in
 bean of looking-glass tin, & I mixed, & stirred the crucible a little, and I cast. And the medal came out
 as neat as the principal. I smoked it with the candle & cleaned it with small brushes. Always cast through the
 I smoked it with the candle & cleaned it with small brushes . Always cast through the foot of the medal because
 cast longish. And when you cast several medals in a large frame , they will come out better. Advice about the above
 be smoked until then. If the sand shrinks in the frame , this means that it must be reheated & reddened
 sand, when moistened, does not stick at all to the hand when pressed. The perfect sand for the frame is aspalt,
 to the hand when pressed. The perfect sand for the frame is aspalt, which is found in Germany, which is soft
 to make the vents very large & deep either. For frames , the sand that you use for the noyau, of
 And because it is mixed with earth and filth, one pestles it coarsely & one makes little balls, having for this
 places these balls to reheat in the fire of the fornaise of the potters , then one soaks it again in the same water.
 clouding the water, which murkiness is emptied into a separate vase . When it has settled, one empties the water by
 water by tilting or by taking it away with a sponge , and the pure aspalte remains at the bottom. Dry
 at the bottom. Dry it & employ it in a frame that has been moistened with sal ammoniac water. And try
 moistened with sal ammoniac water. And try it in the frame , in which it shrinks when reheated or dried, that
 for all metals. It is so tenacious that should the frame be furrowed, it holds. The spat almost does not set,
 a kind of plaster. Raw, it breaks easily with the fingers . Excellent secret for molding hollow and very delicately in
 it mold it in relief and hammer it in a sheet of tin , Et pu and then fill with lead & heat
 were good that your crocum had previously been in the glassmaker’s fornaise , three or four days and three days and three
 four days and three days and three nights, in a flat box where it should not be very thick, so that it
 in a branch of wormseed. IlNightingale One needs for the cage , made like those for larks like a barn &
 like those for larks like a barn & lined with green fabric , to be made with a drawer underneath, to refresh
 & lined with green fabric, to be made with a drawer underneath, to refresh its fresh earth everyday, for it takes
 You can carry an anthill with its earth in a barrel full of earth , & keep them there & they will lay their
 needs to, for the first day, take uyit in the hand & open its beak & put in its beak with
 open its beak & put in its beak with a small pointed stick some mutton heart or other delicate flesh, chopped up not
 drink. The next morning, you will give it in its cage some well-minced flesh with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg,
 The best is made of needle filings. Crocum ferri hardens molds , once reheated, & feather alum, the more there is,
 current of the waters is good, being passed through a linen cloth to shake the powder. + Flowers are also kept in
 kept in their same beauty in distilled vinegar vin a well sealed vessel which does not allow any wind, which should be well
 to the flowers, & is not easily removed with a paintbrush , it is no good. The leanest is the best.
 good. The leanest is the best. + Make sure your box is well joined, in order that the sand does not
 place. QueTake heed not to put the said flowers in big vessels , for when one pulls out one, one needs to
 form. Having thus chosen it as is needed, take a box , in which you first make a mound of the
 flower touches neither the bottom nor the sides of the box , but remains in the air. Then, weigh down the
 Finally, take some of the same sand & with two fingers pulverize & cast it delicately on the flower, e imitating
 the flower, e imitating in that the flow of an hourglass . And when the flower is as if half covered,
 when the flower is as if half covered, strike your fist on the table where the box is set in order
 half covered, strike your fist on the table where the box is set in order that the sand drops & enters
 in order, one over the other, as many as your box can contain. That being thus arranged, expose it for several
 sand that does not hold together, pass it through a horsehair sieve , for it ought not to be so thin. Next,
 it the fruit with your hand, and put them in glass bottles that have a wide opening, like tall glass boxes for
 in glass bottles that have a wide opening, like tall glass boxes for putting preserves. Fortify them with straw or something else
 they would be all the better. Put them in a case in your well, or in your cellar in a vat,
 case in your well, or in your cellar in a vat, or in a cos of earth full of water . For where the hand will touch, it will rot,
 wishing to mold it, take the three parts of an earthenware bowl, from which the peasants eat their soup , of the aforesaid sand, & add to it pure
 to it pure feather alum, reheated & pulverized in the mortar , as much as you can take with 4 fingers
 of the common water, + & stir it with your spatula so that it all becomes like a thick sauce or
 mustard, & having rubbed the animal with eau-de-vie with the paintbrush , cast, & blow, and beat the table to shake
 eau-de-vie with the paintbrush, cast, & blow, and beat the table to shake the mold, & do as with others. Do
 cast, & blow, and beat the table to shake the mold , & do as with others. Do not forget to
 forget to put in it crocum, for it prevents the molds from cracking & is appropriate for all metals. Alloyed silver
 which needs to be placed before the sand in the bowl , which is put in the water, & not the
 waste which founders use to cast their cannons, or any good lute which withstands the fire, in order to surround your molds
 lute which withstands the fire, in order to surround your molds & fortify them, for they must be all red. One
 be all red. One needs to also bind them with iron wire . That before casting sil reheating the molds, you have
 them with iron wire. That before casting sil reheating the molds , you have the mixture one needs to make the
 denier. I have used silver from the Capital Before binding luting & strengthening your molds for gold & silver with the
 silver from the Capital Before binding luting & strengthening your molds for gold & silver with the aforesaid earth, one needs
 the cast to be made & the vents, & the molds to have been reheated of very red to burn the
 them well of the ashes. Once quite clean & prepared, lute them & bind them with iron wire, & reheat them
 quite clean & prepared, lute them & bind them with iron wire , & reheat them again until they will be quite
 little wax & rub it, & lengthen it on a table into the form of a thick needle, then cut that
 lengthen it on a table into the form of a thick needle , then cut that which you will need, & with
 then cut that which you will need, & with the tip of a hot iron wire , join it where it will be necessary. Steady also
 it where it will be necessary. Steady also on the frame mold all that will have detached from it (when you
 where it will be necessary. Steady also on the frame mold all that will have detached from it (when you uncover
 of the belly) with some wax, taken lightly with the point of a penknife , & joined & melted with the iron wire. And
 point of a penknife, & joined & melted with the iron wire . And when you make your gate, you ought only
 wax around the stem of the plant. And with the end of a iron wire that is hot , melt the wax a little, & with the other
 hot, melt the wax a little, & with the other hand , close the jaws of the animal. And then you
 putting anything there, although you could pass underneath it some thread , going through with a needle. Cleaning the bowl and
 could pass underneath it some thread, going through with a needle . Cleaning the bowl and the spoon with which one
 it some thread, going through with a needle. Cleaning the bowl and the spoon with which one tempers the sand Be
 going through with a needle. Cleaning the bowl and the spoon with which one tempers the sand Be careful to clean,
 as soon as & quickly after you have cast, your bowl & your spatula or spoon with which you temper your
 & quickly after you have cast, your bowl & your spatula or spoon with which you temper your sand, because ’il
 after you have cast, your bowl & your spatula or spoon with which you temper your sand, because ’il if it
 hole or a fault in the work. Also, when the mold is reheated, these little pieces crust up & flake off
 legs, it will be awkward. The first part of the mold , that is, the first cast on the clay slab,
 of the mold, that is, the first cast on the clay slab , cracks more readily in the fire than the second.
 kind you can find. Weigh them as said above, and pestle them separately, keeping your face covered, over the nose &
 Mix them well, all together, then put them in a good crucible that is so large that the substances can have the
 the fourth or fifth part as empty space. Cover the crucible with a good tile, adapted in a circle precisely on
 fifth part as empty space. Cover the crucible with a good tile , adapted in a circle precisely on its opening. And
 it from top to bottom and on the sides with iron wire quite strongly, lute it with earth mixed with dung or
 bottom and on the sides with iron wire quite strongly, lute it with earth mixed with dung or founder’s earth that
 careful & diligent, & do not forget to mix in pestled glass throughout the lute to fortify your crucible in such
 do not forget to mix in pestled glass throughout the lute to fortify your crucible in such a manner that it
 mix in pestled glass throughout the lute to fortify your crucible in such a manner that it takes no air, for
 last ingredients would be exhaled. Note that you need to lute well your crucible, in order that the substances do not
 be exhaled. Note that you need to lute well your crucible , in order that the substances do not take air,
 the substances do not take air, for they are exhaled. Lute well your crucible, in order that it does not break.
 not take air, for they are exhaled. Lute well your crucible , in order that it does not break. For if
 it be abused. The grain is like broken steel. Your lute being dry, put, in the early morning, your crucible in
 Your lute being dry, put, in the early morning, your crucible in a four à vent, & at the beginning, give
 dry, put, in the early morning, your crucible in a four à vent , & at the beginning, give slow fire, as much
 the beginning, give slow fire, as much for reheating your crucible as for gently letting the fury of the saltpeter pass.
 in your mouth, and ada cover your face with a cloth from the eyes down. From this mass, the crust will
 the grain that will be at the bottom of the crucible should be put aside for principally delicate flowers and herbs
 charcoal, let it consume it by itself, & let your crucible cool. Next, break it. You will find two hard slabs
 You will find two hard slabs & cakes in the crucible . The upper one is as if petrified Once, composed
 Charcoal fire Or else after you have had your drugs pestled by some rustic. And having put them in your crucible,
 pestled by some rustic. And having put them in your crucible , & the latter luted & dry as said &
 And having put them in your crucible, & the latter luted & dry as said & placed into the furnace, have
 latter luted & dry as said & placed into the furnace , have the fire managed by a shop boy familiar
 to make the core & the noyau, one needs the mold to be freshly molded & not dry. Spider’s web It
 the grass that they make in the fields on some quarton with a point. One makes around it an edge of
 they make in the fields on some quarton with a point . One makes around it an edge of paper, glued
 a point. One makes around it an edge of paper, glued to the quarton & one casts with tin, very little alloyed with lead.
 antimony, is nevertheless so brittle that it hardly withstands the hammer . And the composition of verdet, described above to make
 the good one is made with gold. Casting with gold Molds are reheated better & more surely in a closed fire,
 better & more surely in a closed fire, such as pot in a reverberatory furnace. So that when goldsmiths want to
 surely in a closed fire, such as pot in a reverberatory furnace . So that when goldsmiths want to cast some important
 cost a lot to model in wax, they put the molds in a pot & cover them, & fill the pot
 to model in wax, they put the molds in a pot & cover them, & fill the pot with earth, sustaining
 molds in a pot & cover them, & fill the pot with earth, sustaining the fire that holds them together &
 that holds them together & tight. Then, they reheat the mold , earth & pot together, and when everything is quite
 together & tight. Then, they reheat the mold, earth & pot together, and when everything is quite red, they cast the
 lead, tin, or lime of these has fallen in the forge . A means to make the gate for small female
 little threads of this thickness and apply some with the hot iron wire , as is said, one at the end of the
 depicted. But take heed to make sure that with the end of the hot iron wire , the end of the wax barely touches the animal,
 at the edge of the empty part of the first mold . Make also conduits of wax around the legs &
 entrance of the animal & of the thickness of a knife . 🝋 From small rolls, you make your gates and
 vents without danger of crusting & removing anything from the mold , because the wax, being taken away, leaves the empty
 nevertheless as said. One needs to oil well the first mold . And when the second one has set well, and
 & if it is boiling, there is no danger. All plaster molds , alone or mixed, release in it. Secret Vipers and
 wax When you want to cast in wax in the plaster mold , you must know as secret that there is need
 must know as secret that there is need for your mold to be in hot water. Never does the animal come
 is as much of it in one half of the mold as in the other. Make also strong wide gates, close
 needs to soak for one night or one day the plaster mold before casting the sugar, in order that it is very
 come out that way. Take heed, therefore, to make your molds in the natural season of que all things. The grapes
 with some grapes attached with some melted wax on some slab & other full thing, so that they are very close
 very close together, encase half of them on in the clay slab and cast on the other half. And if some grape
 the bunch does not have the grapes close together & molds without having them scattered & spread apart. To cast pears
 make any gates, but rather, fill one half of the mold and then join the two, and keep turning it until
 and is cold. One ought to mix nothing in the mold apart from plaster, reheated as you know. + One needs
 plaster, reheated as you know. + One needs for the mold to have soaked one day and one night in cold
 it, one needs to throw some wheat starch in the mold or rub it with an almond. Crocum ferri It is
 wheat starch in the mold or rub it with an almond . Crocum ferri It is much sooner made with iron
 for forty or fifty sous. It does not harden the molds , and, in scraping, one cannot tell that they are
 that they are harder from it. But it makes the mold less dense, and it drinks in and attracts the gold
 a piece as you please. But if you take your molds from large works & pieces of wood, it will not
 make flashing. Seek the hard kind and it put your molds well in the press before casting. It is not good
 hard kind and it put your molds well in the press before casting. It is not good when it shrinks. Plants
 ashes, it is not possible to empty them from the mold . Some reheat them, to do this, two or d
 d three times. Others, putting several plants together in the mold , pass through threads the plants & thees molds circle
 in the mold, pass through threads the plants & thees molds circle of earth, which is to receive the tempered sand,
 the mold, pass through threads the plants & thees molds circle of earth , which is to receive the tempered sand, plusi This
 your clear sand, as to give them venting when the mold is reheated. For, in doing this, the mold thread burns
 when the mold is reheated. For, in doing this, the mold thread burns & leaves some empty space around the plants,
 they are growing, so that their stem is still thin. Molds of plaster for wax When your mold of plaster is done &
 is still thin. Molds of plaster for wax When your mold of plaster is done & dried, take heed that your mold be
 of plaster is done & dried, take heed that your mold be of good release, for sometimes it happens that the
 too thick. They are made when the animal is the molds have been made from both sides & the animal is
 fire, which you need to always have provision of to lute your molds that ont b are meant to serve for
 you need to always have provision of to lute your molds that ont b are meant to serve for casting silver
 needs to burn some flower or animal should not be luted until they have been reheated once, and they have been
 of bones & ashes remaining inside, and, having removed the clamps , you have opened the two halves to see if
 brick more, or in place of the brick, mixing in crucible bottoms & similar things which resist well in the fire.
 which resist well in the fire. Having therefore reheated your mold to burn it inside, leave to cool well. And if
 And if it is neat & not cracked, put the clamps back & lute it with this aforesaid founders’ earth &
 is neat & not cracked, put the clamps back & lute it with this aforesaid founders’ earth & sprinkle a little
 keep yourself from luting that they are not until the molds are cold. Those for casting silver, where there is nothing
 & vents are made, luting & reheating once. Do not lute the end of the mold where you want to make
 & reheating once. Do not lute the end of the mold where you want to make your gate, but leave it
 & the exit of the vent as well. If the molds that were do to crack, it is made thus at
 for at the second, they no longer crack. The smallest molds are reheated more quickly. Take the, therefore, the first reheated
 of them to reheat. Light the charcoals first, in the forge or in some other place nearby, & having placed your
 or in some other place nearby, & having placed your molds on a layer of good embers, not burning too much,
 there & adjust a little the half-lit charcoals in the forge . The earth that founders use to braze or solder,
 or else clay mixed with sand, after having dried & sieved & then composed it, is good for luting your molds
 sieved & then composed it, is good for luting your molds because this earth melts rather than cracks. And any earth
 any earth that melts is cannot be lacking in this. Iron wire to give it bond. Lute thickly your molds, & if
 be lacking in this. Iron wire to give it bond. Lute thickly your molds, & if they are small, you can
 this. Iron wire to give it bond. Lute thickly your molds , & if they are small, you can reheat them
 not crack while reheating, & does not separate from the mold , the molds will also not crack & will not
 while reheating, & does not separate from the mold, the molds will also not crack & will not make flashing at
 fire, & do not expose them hot to the air. Lute rather thickly in two or three layers, especially right in
 order that the silver does not come out of the mold . Reheat in a reverberatory furnace. To test if your
 does not come out of the mold. Reheat in a reverberatory furnace . To test if your earth is good, before putting
 if your earth is good, before putting it on your mold , lute at the place of the fo wall of
 your earth is good, before putting it on your mold, lute at the place of the fo wall of the forge
 lute at the place of the fo wall of the forge which is around the blast-pipe & barrel of the bellows,
 the fo wall of the forge which is around the blast-pipe & barrel of the bellows, & light the fire, &
 forge which is around the blast-pipe & barrel of the bellows , & light the fire, & if it withstands this
 small stone of pulverized borax at the bottom of the crucible & the gold and silver on top. This makes it
 silver on top. This makes it so that if the crucible gives off some vapor or sour fumes, it will not
 vapor or sour fumes, it will not impair these two metals . For gold in particular, this is good. If you
 filling one, remelt & cast in the other. When your mold starts to redden on the inside, & when the cast
 if need be, add in some half-lit charcoals with your pincers . However, com put in the forge your crucible with
 half-lit charcoals with your pincers. However, com put in the forge your crucible with a little ground borax at the bottom,
 with your pincers. However, com put in the forge your crucible with a little ground borax at the bottom, & the
 & the silver that you want to cast in your forge should be on top, letting your crucible reheat between the
 cast in your forge should be on top, letting your crucible reheat between the lit charcoals jus without blowing until it
 do blow, push in a longish & continuous movement the bellows , giving them a little shake when pushing & another
 heat becomes stronger. Com NeTake heed to raise sometimes your crucible with the with hot pincers, becauseil if it is placed
 heed to raise sometimes your crucible with the with hot pincers , becauseil if it is placed right in front of
 becauseil if it is placed right in front of the blast-pipe & the bellow b wind builds the wind of the
 is placed right in front of the blast-pipe & the bellow b wind builds the wind of the bellows hits the
 & the bellow b wind builds the wind of the bellows hits the crucible, it will cool your silver rather than
 b wind builds the wind of the bellows hits the crucible , it will cool your silver rather than heating it.
 sure that the lit charcoals support it from above the blast-pipe , & take care that it is at a distance
 distance of three good fingers from the wall of the forge . In this way, it heats better. Therefore, when your
 more ability to heat. And occasionally throw it in the crucible on the silver, which clarifies it. But if you have
 not need das much tin crocum as feather alum. Small molds are reheated quickly, but big & small ones should dry
 but big & small ones should dry beforehand in the furnace , for the humidity of the mold, by thee fo
 dry beforehand in the furnace, for the humidity of the mold , by thee fo heat of the furnace, is attracted
 humidity of the mold, by thee fo heat of the furnace , is attracted outside. But the fierce heat of the
 to this effect, have some lean delicate sand, in a terrine or another vessel, that you would like to help yourself
 have some lean delicate sand, in a terrine or another vessel , that you would like to help yourself to. Make
 to. Make a pit in your sand, then, with your pincers , take your well-reddened mold & place it in this
 pit in your sand, then, with your pincers, take your well-reddened mold & place it in this pit of sand. Cover immediately
 this pit of sand. Cover immediately the opening of your mold in order that no ash & dust enters inside, &
 of the gate & the vents. This done, uncover your mold & throw on top of your well-melted silver, the size
 sure that it be placed at the end of your forge . If you want to blow the ash that is
 you want to blow the ash that is around your mold when you hold it between the pincers, hold it with
 is around your mold when you hold it between the pincers , hold it with the opening at the bottom, &
 well melted, you can uncover it and blow with the small bellows , not continually like with gold, but only to cast
 and mixed with common water, in the fire of his forge . Once taken out, he brushed it. And because it
 in the fire of his forge. Once taken out, he brushed it. And because it was not as clean of this
 crust as he fancied, he burned some tartar in some paper until it was black & no longer smoked. Then, he
 he put it between the live of charcoals of his forge & blew a little. When the lizard was red, he
 it cool, then reheated it in the bullitoyre. Next, he brushed it in clear water. + Note that the bullitoyre for
 that the bullitoyre for silver is never good in a crucible because the water, taking the form of the f tartar,
 taking the form of the f tartar, evaporates. But the vessel for boiling, being of copper, is excellent for the whitening
 to lighten and whiten, like under the throat, rub with coarse linen . The male ejects from its nature, which is at
 with flowers from the caper plant. Animals dried in the oven for a long time Plant them on a slab of
 the oven for a long time Plant them on a slab of earth , arranging them with points of iron wire, as if
 Plant them on a slab of earth, arranging them with points of iron wire , as if you wanted to mold them, and they
 wanted to mold them, and they dry them in an oven after the bread has been taken out. And they always
 sand, as with flowers, & promptly dry them in the oven , which is hot enough, like when one takes out
 otherwise it would be smelly. However, take heed that the oven not be too harsh, but rather like the heat of
 dry, do not wet them, but clean them with a paintbrush or clean them with a brush. Animals cast in copper
 clean them with a paintbrush or clean them with a brush . Animals cast in copper Try, d having cast them
 do not lay them flat, or burn them with a candle , or stiffen them & lay them flat with some,
 can give them back their capricious hair with bourr the sieved fine hair of cloth waste, having anointed them with a
 them in various places with sulfur. Having made your tourt clay slab , place on it your vine leaf, and the dead
 the dead spider in the middle, & pierce with a point of iron or latten wire the middle of the spider’s body & the leaf together.
 the spider’s body & the leaf together. Next, place diagonally small points of latten wire around the vine leaf to secure it well. Then fix,
 well. Then fix, with a little melted wax and the point of a hot iron wire , the end of the legs, adapting them with the
 end of the legs, adapting them with the end of small pincers . Do the same thing with the end of the
 body with a little wax, melted & applied with the hot iron wire , as you know. In this way, when the leaf
 is cool, scrape the excess with the point of a penknife in order that the end of the legs stay neat.
 the end of the legs stay neat. Next, place the circle of earth around & cast your tempered sand, like for other things.
 you will need to burn the vine leaf in the mold , otherwise not. And to cast more easily, let the
 leaf and make the second cast. Animals dried in an oven Small s cats are skinned and one removes their eyes
 removes their eyes & all their entrails. One puts a small stick vertically between their teeth to make them open their mouths
 teeth to make them open their mouths wide. Then with iron points one attaches their feet to a small board, giving them
 Then with iron points one attaches their feet to a small board , giving them the fitting attitude & gait. Once thus
 attitude & gait. Once thus attached by their feet with small rings of iron wire thus, one needs to suspend them in the sun with
 with some tool. Then one finishes drying it in an oven when the bread is drawn. Next, one places in the
 drawn. Next, one places in the hollow of the eyes balls of lead or of wax , painted according to nature. One paints them with well-gummed
 a single spider One needs to plant it on the clay slab , as has been said, on a vine leaf, and
 well. Molding a single vine leaf Plant it with the points of fine iron latten wire & place diagonally on the clay slab, then cast the
 of fine iron latten wire & place diagonally on the clay slab , then cast the first mold. When it has set,
 place diagonally on the clay slab, then cast the first mold . When it has set, uncover the back reverse &
 away the leaf. And you will need to reheat your mold only once, because there will be nothing to burn. Molding
 in this case, one le needs to sometimes reheat the mold three or four times. And with all of this, it
 has been opened, with the very fine point of a penknife with dexterity, as with the little crusts of the second
 but as it will have set, keep from opening the mold until you have first reheated it well. Otherwise, because of
 is painted like a crayfish. Know that For opening the mold , there is no need to soak it, for once
 you have molded en noyau la e figur the first mold , let it dry well before taking away the figure
 the figure of wax, in order in order that the mold does not corrupt. Next, make a small lasagna of paste
 anointed with butter your the hollow of your first hollow mold , adapt the paste to it, and then make your
 adapt the paste to it, and then make your second mold on top. If you were to anoint with oil, it
 as butter. Plants that are awkward to burn in the mold Mold them with two or three casts, which, once reheated,
 once moistened with eau-de-vie. Then, place your paper on a clay slab & moisten it with eau-de-vie and cast on one side
 suchlike Rough out some design in half relief on a quite flat slate to adapt it to either round or flat things. And
 lead white are not for burning & melting in a mold where you want to cast gold & silver, for this
 composed of things coming from the metals reheated in the mold , you will be wrong, because, the asperity of the
 composition of the ceruse or other metallic color attacks the mold . And for this reason, if you want to rough
 except casting with melted sulfur, since it is melted, & candle smoke. The melted sulfur goes to the bottom and nevertheless
 ceruse or suchlike, it is necessary that you put your mold in boiling water. For figures of flat wax, there is
 the wax releases & does not stay in the la mold . When the cast of tin or lead becomes porous
 if there is little tin, it makes it porous. Your mold must not be cold, but of such a heat that
 handle it without harm, or that you can keep your finger in the gate without burning yourself. It is also necessary
 with the l’es same substance, then repair it with the burin , file, chaple & suchlike. Tin is a metal that
 the l’es same substance, then repair it with the burin, file , chaple & suchlike. Tin is a metal that penetrates,
 l’es same substance, then repair it with the burin, file, chaple & suchlike. Tin is a metal that penetrates, that becomes
 which is a sign of its perfect heat, & the mold ch is so hot that you can bear putting your
 ch is so hot that you can bear putting your finger in it. Do not open until it is cooled. It
 when it exits by the vents. not to open your mold too hot, for this sours it, makes it porous &
 the molded thing break. Also, do not quench your hot mold in water, for this makes the le met tin or
 for this makes the le met tin or lead contract. Mold made in two casts It is opened, once reheated, to
 opened, once reheated, to clean it; next, one puts the clamps on again, one lutes the mold & especially the joints,
 clean it; next, one puts the clamps on again, one lutes the mold & especially the joints, then one slowly dries
 next, one puts the clamps on again, one lutes the mold & especially the joints, then one slowly dries the earth.
 And then, as it no longer smokes, one leaves the mold to cool until you can hold it without harm. Next,
 you can hold it without harm. Next, put in the presses or in the sand in a terrine, & cast in
 put in the presses or in the sand in a terrine , & cast in tin. For if you were to
 in silver or gold, it would be necessary that your mold be reheated twice & cast when it would be completely
 & cast when it would be completely red. If your mold f, through the fault of the plaster, retracts in the
 it after the first reheating to tighten it again, & clamp it and lute again, and tighten again. Method for reheating
 first reheating to tighten it again, & clamp it and lute again, and tighten again. Method for reheating the molds Light
 and lute again, and tighten again. Method for reheating the molds Light charcoals in the forge, & then arrange them in
 again. Method for reheating the molds Light charcoals in the forge , & then arrange them in rows in a corner
 a corner of it, according to the size of your mold , in such a way that it can be furnished
 fingers all around, and especially at the bottom of the mold , which is the thickest and which. Your charcoals thus
 the thickest and which. Your charcoals thus arranged, place your molds on top of them, & not on a grate, as
 your molds on top of them, & not on a grate , as some do, because they would take the fire
 some time thus, & little & by little, warm your oven , always adding some lit charcoal. And as long as
 always adding some lit charcoal. And as long as the mold is damp, the charcoals will be as if died down
 begin to redden, do not blow the charcoals with the little bellows , for this would make it blow burst. And similarly,
 upon it. Let cool When you want to reheat your molds , & be they luted or not, mark on the
 When you want to reheat your molds, & be they luted or not, mark on the belly the place to put
 belly & from underneath than on the back. If your mold is small, one ought not to leave it rest so
 nothing appears black. Common sand from the mine In a frame , if one casts hot, it becomes porous; therefore, one
 it in the fire, I had it finely ground on porphyry , until no roughness was perceived on the fingernail. Then,
 ground on porphyry, until no roughness was perceived on the fingernail . Then, I wet it with very good vinegar &
 each day. Finally, I boiled it & reddened in the pot & crocum all together in the four à vent. It
 reddened in the pot & crocum all together in the four à vent . It came back in a mass full of small
 bubbles, but that can be pulverized very finely between the fingers . I put some in the sand, a half as
 & very finely. The crocum ferri does not render the mold harder, but it firms it. And when your mold is
 the mold harder, but it firms it. And when your mold is soft & fatty when scraping it with the fingernail,
 mold is soft & fatty when scraping it with the fingernail , it is a sign that the crocum is good,
 very fine, & well prepared. The quantity cannot spoil the mold , because it is a friend to gold. And I
 believe that silver would come out well. And that the mold , through this means, does not crack. Make it from
 of needles. I have tried to make it so the molds where it is mixed do not crack during reheating &
 made with distilled vinegar. One can put some amongst the molds , where you want to cast silver, for it firms
 where you want to cast silver, for it firms the molds , and you will find it so, by scraping a
 It molds very neatly. This one is appropriate for all molds & keeps them from breaking & bursting in the fire.
 cover them lightly with wax & then cast the second mold . And the wax being removed, it will leave a
 Marks from the points of iron wire which are found on the head of the animal L
 found on the head of the animal L With the points , one has previously set the stance, especially that of
 a little exudation, which hinders the sand from covering the point & there always remains some little opening g. But to
 this, you can plant in the slab of earth an iron point , arro cleaned & rounded at the top end, &
 a little mastic or cement and, by means of the hot iron wire , hold in place the throat of the animal, which
 the belly & the throat to make the second cast. Clamps and broken mold When you have made the first reheating
 the throat to make the second cast. Clamps and broken mold When you have made the first reheating & removed the
 When you have made the first reheating & removed the clamps , and you have the opened your mold to clean
 & removed the clamps, and you have the opened your mold to clean it by blowing with quicksilver, which is used
 by blowing with quicksilver, which is used only in enclosed molds , close the mold again & put the clamps on
 quicksilver, which is used only in enclosed molds, close the mold again & put the clamps on again, but not in
 in enclosed molds, close the mold again & put the clamps on again, but not in the first place where they
 again, but not in the first place where they were. Lute again & dry again. But if it is for a
 if it is for a cast with silver or gold, lute with the remainder of the sand that was used, for
 that was used, for it is the safest. If your mold , while reheating, is broken, you can adjust it with
 while reheating, is broken, you can adjust it with some clamps & lute. X Bubbles and little holes which are found
 is broken, you can adjust it with some clamps & lute . X Bubbles and little holes which are found in
 X Bubbles and little holes which are found in the mold This readily comes about when you cast two or three
 This readily comes about when you cast two or three small molds , one after the other, in the same bowl, for
 three small molds, one after the other, in the same bowl , for the last one is cast from the bottom
 one is cast from the bottom & thickest of the bowl , which readily becomes porous. The thinnest casts more finely
 needs to cut it to make it burn in the mold , but cut it with chisels in one go, in
 make it burn in the mold, but cut it with chisels in one go, in order that the blood does not
 in order that the blood does not fall on the mold & does not create filth, which, once reheated, is difficult
 which, once reheated, is difficult to remove. Next, put your mold in the oven or similar heat, in order that it
 is difficult to remove. Next, put your mold in the oven or similar heat, in order that it dries promptly &
 & retracts before making a crust or mold on the mold . + When you mold small female lizards and you
 the heads & you will recognize its place by the pin . Do not attempt to uncover the legs until you
 is vexing to put them back. When you remove the little points which hold the legs, fix them & press them with
 press them with something, in order that, when removing the pin , they are not removed from their place, or, in
 earth suited to support it. And if you put your mold in the oven, the animal, drying promptly, will retract &
 support it. And if you put your mold in the oven , the animal, drying promptly, will retract & will burn
 attach & join with some wax s, finely applied with hot iron wire , all the parts of the animal which pass one
 that you notice are not well fixed on the wax earthen slab , in order that the tempered sand does not remove
 does not remove it. And it is to avoid putting points , which should not be put except at the raising
 feet, the nails of which you will enter into the clay slab , in order that they remain secure. When you have
 the animal, do not forget to put small thin s slabs of wax at the end of the lizard’s legs. But, if it
 it away. And if For, if this were to happen mold would corrupt, the shape in the first place would spoil
 shape in the first place would spoil corrupt & your mold also, because it would not have the thickness that it
 And, even though to avoid this you can make the mold thicker, however, should l this mishap happen, you will be
 to repair it in this way. For mending a pierced mold If the molded animal comes away in some place to
 dead or because it was not well attached with the iron points or with melted wax, and it does not have the
 all around all around, then soak the back of the mold . And cast promptly on top of the same tempered
 & attach to the other. But, one will need to lute this place well afterward. Sand of crocum One can use
 crocum One can use the mixture of crocum ferri in molds for silver as well as for gold, for it firms
 together as the verdigris. Grind them finely into powder on marble , then grind them again with some good strong vinegar
 you have time, or in the fire lent of the forge , & make sure it is well dry. Grind spider
 of gold in large works One needs not only to clamp the molds well but to fortify them with good bindings
 in large works One needs not only to clamp the molds well but to fortify them with good bindings of iron
 molds well but to fortify them with good bindings of iron wire or little bands made for this. Before casting in gold,
 to fortify them with good bindings of iron wire or little bands made for this. Before casting in gold, clean your forge
 bands made for this. Before casting in gold, clean your forge well of lead & tin. Secret for soldering gold and
 found on the teeth, & with the point of a burin , apply it to the place you want to solder,
 with regard to the thing that you molded. And for big molds , at the very least, it is necessary that it
 have molded an animal in the first part of the mold , do not let this part dry before you have
 before you have taken away the said animal, for the mold , in drying, contracts and would also make the animal
 several places. Therefore place your leaf bottom down on the clay slab , and secure it with small points, nevertheless leaving it
 bottom down on the clay slab, and secure it with small points , nevertheless leaving it its natural curve. And make a
 stem from the leaf & clean with it well with small bristle brushes & fix it with a small mound of clay. Next,
 & whatever you will like. Casting in ☼ Take a crucible with a capacity suitable for what you want to put
 at the bottom, then the ☼ on top. Arrange the crucible on the charcoals of the forge in such a way
 on top. Arrange the crucible on the charcoals of the forge in such a way that the wind of the bellows
 forge in such a way that the wind of the bellows blows on it from underneath and not at the side,
 it is distanced three fingers from the wall of the forge , in order that it can be surrounded with charcoal.
 that it can be surrounded with charcoal. Let the said crucible reheat until it is quite red. Then, make your boy
 by when the gold is melted, blow on top with small bellows , for the gold will become brittle & take on
 is not soft enough for the cast. Uncover therefore the crucible , & without moving ch it from its place and
 bean of borax, & blow inside in jolts with the small bellows . But if there is charcoal inside, blow a little
 it is hot enough, throw in on top, in the crucible , the couleur, composed, as said before, of verdet, saltpeter,
 borax, a little. And let rest blow always with the small bellows , and the gold will become shiny like If you
 shiny like If you cast in gold some important piece, lute your mold with the same sand where there is there
 If you cast in gold some important piece, lute your mold with the same sand where there is there is some
 or which is important, make at the foot of the forge , or at one end of it, a four à
 of the forge, or at one end of it, a four à vent , where you can hold your mold in the completely
 it, a four à vent, where you can hold your mold in the completely n red sand. One can cast two
 couleur & let rest a little, always blowing with the small & large bellows . Finally, arrange your very red mold between the moulets
 the small & large bellows. Finally, arrange your very red mold between the moulets or in a crucible full of very
 large bellows. Finally, arrange your very red mold between the moulets or in a crucible full of very hot sand, &
 your very red mold between the moulets or in a crucible full of very hot sand, & cast. And when it
 of no importance to gec blow on top with the little bellows . For large works, the crucible of sand needs to
 on top with the little bellows. For large works, the crucible of sand needs to be put in a fourneau à
 the crucible of sand needs to be put in a fourneau à vent , to become entirely red at the end of the
 vent, to become entirely red at the end of the fournaise . The gold that the wind hits or that one
 DEsm Enamelling thin works Goldsmiths scrape gold leaf with the brim of a burin , & then set the enamel down on it. For
 latten. Take heed to cast very hot & that your mold be red like for gold, silver, copper & metal. If
 not make fumes as much. If it is in a frame which does not break & withstands a, the second cast
 sand other than the previous en noyau & that the mold be red like for gold. Make many vents. And if
 to cast, one purifies it well of charcoal with a stalk of copper or iron , and one covers it with a cloth soaked in
 of copper or iron, and one covers it with a cloth soaked in pig fat mixed with saltpeter or sal ammoniac , to keep it from the wind & from cooling.
 For casting in red copper Pure red copper from a cauldron or other thin works is appropriate for casting. And to
 that one needs to cast copper very hot in the mold , which needs to also be inflamed & entirely red
 wind, for it will quickly cool. Stop the cast with tows or to keep it from cooling. Red copper comes out
 cast very hot, that it is like water. Removing your mold from the fire, plant it in des a brazier that
 your mold from the fire, plant it in des a brazier that fills a pot or a vessel. Huile tingente to
 fire, plant it in des a brazier that fills a pot or a vessel. Huile tingente to make metals run Take
 in des a brazier that fills a pot or a vessel . Huile tingente to make metals run Take some ☿
 pea. Pulverize everything separately, & next mix everything in a glass bottle & put on hot ash. You will see that everything
 a spring of water in the pit to lose everything. Clamps They are made with flat pincers of iron wire, reheated
 the pit to lose everything. Clamps They are made with flat pincers of iron wire , reheated & refolded, then beaten at the ends on
 reheated & refolded, then beaten at the ends on the anvil . When they are thus fine, they are subject to
 they are subject to burning, being put often in the molds for reheating. Therefore, use some new ones. Tempering sand for
 for reheating. Therefore, use some new ones. Tempering sand for molds of flat medals Flat medals of wax or metal are
 are oiled very lightly & then are touched with a paintbrush with eau-de-vie. And in order that the mold, wetted with
 with a paintbrush with eau-de-vie. And in order that the mold , wetted with water, takes without refusing the oiled thing,
 because they are not malleable & thus could break the mold . And animals, which are malleable, do not want to
 should be of such heat that you cannot hold your finger there without feeling strong heat. Temper your sand thicker for
 fine things. Your sand having set, clean & scrape your mold on one side & the other, & make a notch
 that you can take it away better. Lower also the mold , scraping the medal all around, in order that, from
 sides, you can take it away without it corrupting the mold . Next, make your scorings around of the the first
 mold. Next, make your scorings around of the the first mold cast mes, in order that the second cast joins with
 & especially make a notch at the bottom of the mold where the head of the molded thing is. Make some
 the gate. This done, dip the reverse of the first mold in water, oil it, & thus it will not be
 first cast & this one having set, outline, with the point of a knife , the surround of the medal, in order that it
 Then having made the second cast & having opened your mold , have take away the medal in one go, with
 take away the medal in one go, with one two knife points q, and that one takes it from the side of
 the middle of the medal of the p with the point of an oiled paintbrush , & then spread the oil everywhere. Make especially sure
 there is something inside to be burnt & cleaned. The molds of animals that one burns must be heated in such
 things by its weightiness. One does not put ☿ in molds that can open. This readily happens with flowers, the mold
 molds that can open. This readily happens with flowers, the mold of these does not open because they are made all
 all in one go. When you want to reheat your molds , put the clamps on the joints, in order that,
 go. When you want to reheat your molds, put the clamps on the joints, in order that, when reheating, they do
 the pieces of the molds that have been used. One lutes with it also important things, like works of gold or
 as spat from Germany, & it is excellent sand for frames for all metals. The molds of things which one needs
 it is excellent sand for frames for all metals. The molds of things which one needs to burn inside the mold
 until the thing that is inside is burnt, like with molds of crayfish, crabs, stag beetles, portraits & pieces of sulfured
 to set. It would never be better than on a fresh clay slab . Yet, I have experienced that grey earth dries the
 slab. Yet, I have experienced that grey earth dries the mold too soon. The yellow is better. For medals and flat
 sand is thus thick, one can hit and shake the table where the mold is placed, to make it run everywhere.
 thick, one can hit and shake the table where the mold is placed, to make it run everywhere. But when the
 the thickest at the end in order to fortify the mold . Talcum mixed in the molds I took the one
 in order to fortify the mold. Talcum mixed in the molds I took the one from which I had pulled the
 I crushed it very finely even more s in a steel mortar with a pestle, very lumpy like a file. I rendered
 finely even more s in a steel mortar with a pestle , very lumpy like a file. I rendered it very
 a steel mortar with a pestle, very lumpy like a file . I rendered it very fine & in a cottony
 something to solder promptly and do not have leisure to forge it, they melt some gold and then throw it on
 they melt some gold and then throw it on a cloth or other things that withstand the fire, and they flatten
 gold and then throw it on a cloth or other things that withstand the fire , and they flatten it immediately with a hammer or
 withstand the fire, and they flatten it immediately with a hammer or similar thing. And it ends up very thin &
 up very thin & even receives the impression of the cloth . Fine gold, not alloyed, can be cast in medals,
 & then with a bit of wax, then, with a steel point & a small finishing hammer, join the edge of the
 bit of wax, then, with a steel point & a small finishing hammer , join the edge of the setting to the stone
 tin for one lb of new & unadulterated lead. The mold is made of the aforesaid sand, common to all metals;
 is reheated let it cool until you can hold your finger without harm in the hole of the gate. As for
 the gate. As for lead, one melts it in a crucible ju in the fire, with bellows, until the crucible &
 melts it in a crucible ju in the fire, with bellows , until the crucible & the lead are red. When
 a crucible ju in the fire, with bellows, until the crucible & the lead are red. When it is in this
 in this state, purge it of charcoal, either with a scraper made for this purpose or with the wind of the
 made for this purpose or with the wind of the little bellows . l This done, let it rest thus red, &
 be red like melted metal when it enters in the mold . And if the mold is big, it is better
 metal when it enters in the mold. And if the mold is big, it is better to put it in a
 is big, it is better to put it in a press , in order that it joins well & that the
 well & that the lead does not spread outside the mold . However, should this happen & that for the first
 that for the first or second or third time your mold has not filled, cast boldly, for, provided that your metal
 ℥ of new lead for one lb of this. Large molds should be placed in very tight presses, between two sheets
 one lb of this. Large molds should be placed in very tight presses , between two sheets of copper pu, & then bury
 molds should be placed in very tight presses, between two sheets of copper pu, & then bury them in the sand, which is
 il is by its weight it seals better. Otherwise, these large molds are subject to opening slightly by the weight of the
 opening slightly by the weight of the metal. Some make square pots When the medal is thick, one is not compelled to
 + Note that if you want to cast them in cuttlefish bone , they ought not to be very hot because they
 not to be very hot because they will burn the cuttlefish bone . Test for this effect with paper. If it turns
 will burn the cuttlefish bone. Test for this effect with paper . If it turns the paper red, it is enough,
 Test for this effect with paper. If it turns the paper red, it is enough, it is good to cast, but
 it is good to cast, but if it blackens the paper , it is too hot. If you want to cast
 & as soon as it is melted, cast between two cartons in a very flat & level place, & with a
 in a very flat & level place, & with a point of gold or hard wood , engrave on the left the writing that you want.
 writing that you want. And having poured lead on a carton , press on top with the other adapted carton. either
 lead on a carton, press on top with the other adapted carton . either of earth or plates of copper, or iron,
 covered with fer blanc, to bury more easily these aforementioned molds between the sheets of copper & the stirrup or screw
 blanc, to bury more easily these aforementioned molds between the sheets of copper & the stirrup or screw of iron. Cast of wax
 these aforementioned molds between the sheets of copper & the stirrup or screw of iron . Cast of wax to represent an animal that one
 you propose, & no more, and half as much charcoal, pestled & finely passed through a linen or a sleeve. The
 half as much charcoal, pestled & finely passed through a linen or a sleeve. The charcoal gives color and body to
 charcoal, pestled & finely passed through a linen or a sleeve . The charcoal gives color and body to the wax,
 it will be well melted & liquid, take, for a bowl with handles full of melted wax, as much sulfur la as a
 but take it away & agitate it always with a little stick , & let it finish its bubbling, & when it
 too hot, you could not separate your wax from the mold , & it would set in the cast. When it
 it is in this good state, stir it with a little stick , in order that the pulverized charcoal is everywhere &
 at the bottom. And in this way, cast in your mold , little by little, & not in one go, because
 for releasing and that one needs to burn in the mold à noyau before opening it, po like those which have arms &
 and exits without leaving any filth. If, by chance, the pestled charcoal remains there as ash, by opening the mold &
 the pestled charcoal remains there as ash, by opening the mold & blowing inside, it stays neat. To make snakes with
 snakes with wax, or another thing to fix on a candle , one needs to cast with modeling wax of all
 occasion, you can cast two or three times until your mold is full. As for the mold which is of white
 three times until your mold is full. As for the mold which is of white plaster , pulverized & reheated as for previous sands, you should
 so hot, that, at the beginning, you cannot hold your finger in it. And q take heed that it does not
 the first nor second cast come out readily until the mold is imbibed. Let it cool before opening it, in order
 when the wax spilled out onto the outside of the mold is thin and smooth. Remember to make many gates all
 and smooth. Remember to make many gates all along the mold , in order that the wax may thus run better.
 Make the first gate twice as large as for other molds . And if, in the first cast, your work becomes
 will cast, the neater you will make it, and your mold will serve you for more than a hundred times if
 the other, thus that you can prove it on a hot slate . And the sulfur that you will have put in
 passed through the wax, it does not inflame from a candle . And on this occasion, que I think it will
 to etch When your animal is cast, cut with a hot penknife the flashing & superfluous things. And if you want to
 want to refold it & twist it around on some stick or taper, put it to soften on in hot water,
 refold it & twist it around on some stick or taper , put it to soften on in hot water, and
 cast neatly in sulfur, arrange the bread pith under the brazier , as you know. Mold in it what you want
 large figure Mold it with bread pith coming from the oven , or as the aforesaid, & in drying out, it
 one image make many various ones. Bread coming from the oven is better. And the one that is reheated twice retracts
 weighty and that does not need to burn in the mold , you can cast in plaster & brick, mixed like
 it holds well. However, take heed to dry out your mold at length & on a slow fire & with patience,
 of flowers or other things that want to be their molds reheated & set ablaze, mix in some feather alum &
 & brick alone and molded en noyau like others. My mold was very neat, having lightly oiled & rubbed with eau-de-vie
 the gate which embraced well the medal. I dried the mold well on a slow fire &, at the end, heated
 cool in such a way that I could hold my finger to it without burning myself. I made an alloy of
 very well. When there is nothing to burn in the mold , it is not necessary to reheat it for lead
 & is not released, you can burn it with a hot iron on the crayfish, so that no one sees it. As
 And the belly & the eggs will remain in the mold , and one will need to burn them inside before
 one will need to burn them inside before opening your mold & en for the second time. Thus, all it will
 having been reheated, which is a singular secret for similar molds . The gate is made by the tail, very thin.
 ought to be reserved for turtles. When you open your mold , you will find the crayfish with white bones, but
 drying and will only be more beautiful. Therefore, make your slab of yellow potter’s earth , like for other figures, lay your crayfish on top,
 and on the top. Push the back down in the clay slab , up to near the legs, which is about halfway.
 which is about halfway. And fix the body with an iron wire point in the middle &, if it seems necessary, another at
 the clay, but att fix them with wax & a little hot iron right in the joints. And if you want to find
 the eggs, & fix it in this form with an iron wire point . Above all special heed, since the thing is s
 take heed that the notching that you make in the mold will release well. Make the mold lean on the side
 you make in the mold will release well. Make the mold lean on the side that will be the thickest of
 have to pull them, you could break something in the mold . While uncovering with the point of a knife, or
 could break something in the mold. While uncovering with the point of a knife , or even a burin or other appropriate thing, clean
 uncovering with the point of a knife, or even a burin or other appropriate thing, clean very carefully the sand which
 point of a knife, or even a burin or other appropriate thing , clean very carefully the sand which will be in
 which will be in the joints & elsewhere with your little brushes . And if something gets detached, attach it with wax,
 with some wax. And fill the holes made by the iron wire point with it. And once everything is quite neat & more
 neat & more than half is uncovered, oil your ut mold & n’oubli, after having dipped the reverse in water, &
 eau-de-vie. And make your second cast, having flattened the first mold , in order that the clamps join better. Your mold
 cast, having flattened the first mold, in order that the clamps join better. Your mold must be wider on the side
 first mold, in order that the clamps join better. Your mold must be wider on the side that is imprinted than
 is imprinted than on the back. Do not open your mold after the second cast unless it has been luted &
 your mold after the second cast unless it has been luted & reheated & unless what is inside is burned. Do
 you see an entire half, but take heed that your mold itself, in which you uncover, releases well, for even if
 burned, you despoui would not be able to open your mold without breaking. Repair with penknives, files, little chaples, or burins,
 be able to open your mold without breaking. Repair with penknives , files, little chaples, or burins, &c. Make all around
 able to open your mold without breaking. Repair with penknives, files , little chaples, or burins, &c. Make all around them,
 to open your mold without breaking. Repair with penknives, files, little chaples , or burins, &c. Make all around them, as you
 mold without breaking. Repair with penknives, files, little chaples, or burins , &c. Make all around them, as you see, a
 if your letter is of gum, the humidity of the clay slab or the wetted sand for noyau will moisten your letter
 oil on oiled paper & press in. + Reheat your molds with charcoals previously lit in the forge, in order that
 + Reheat your molds with charcoals previously lit in the forge , in order that the fire is not so hot
 fire is not so hot & does not break the molds . And do not make as much fire where the
 molds. And do not make as much fire where the mold is thin as in the place where it is thick.
 is thin as in the place where it is thick. Molds Make the notches from those that enter more into the
 from those that enter more into the inside of the mold than on the outside, for in this way, they have
 moldy. So do dried animals. One ought not to reheat molds twice when the animal can be removed without burning, like
 thick animals. However, it is always good to redden the mold once. Lute for luting your molds I have not found
 However, it is always good to redden the mold once. Lute for luting your molds I have not found one that
 is always good to redden the mold once. Lute for luting your molds I have not found one that is made
 good to redden the mold once. Lute for luting your molds I have not found one that is made more quickly
 of which the founders of artillery & bells make their trusseaulx and molds, which is lean & sandy. Temper it e
 the founders of artillery & bells make their trusseaulx and molds , which is lean & sandy. Temper it e moderately
 and beat it again quite strongly. You can reheat your mold as soon as the lute is placed. Molding turtles The
 strongly. You can reheat your mold as soon as the lute is placed. Molding turtles The water turtle is more beautiful
 them to death, open their mouth & pass a long penknife through all the intestines, & then make it swallow some
 come out better hollow, because their great thickness corrupts the mold . Those from water are more vigorous. Those of the
 is not good; in sand, it can be accommodated. They sieve their sand, grind it on porphyry, and wet it in
 can be accommodated. They sieve their sand, grind it on porphyry , and wet it in water, & they take away
 also some gate conduits from the end of Let the mold cool before opening it, especially for thick things. one leg
 make thus the gate of wax, to cast the second mold on top, than to wait to do them after the
 on top, than to wait to do them after the mold is reheated q, for at that point, it is necessary,
 ready. One needs to heat well & evenly redden the molds where there are gates of wax, in order that it
 the second casting. They can also be cast well in frames , provided that they are released easily. If they are
 that if you want to release your turtle from the mold without burning it, it needs to be molded thus in
 let it dry well. And clean it well with your small bristle brushes . Next, not take your clay slab and put it
 well with your small bristle brushes. Next, not take your clay slab and put it on top and smudge it a little,
 to it, having, nevertheless, earlier shaped the head with a strong point , as with other animals, making it hold high by
 it hold high by the means of one a little fresh clay that you will adapt from underneath. Stretch the said head
 from underneath. Stretch the said head & legs with your little pincers . The head arranged, dexterously place d a grain of
 d a grain of yellow millet in each eye with pincers , because as soon as they are dead the eyes
 this done, you will arrange the legs, securing them with iron points and then, with some clay, fill up all the empty
 s e of belly, make a little pit in the clay slab to adapt them there. Your turtle When they are better
 my invention having been thus arranged & well cleaned with brushes , place the the circle of clay around the slab.
 thus arranged & well cleaned with brushes, place the the circle of clay around the slab. Then, with a band of clay placed
 with brushes, place the the circle of clay around the slab . Then, with a band of clay placed on the
 the circle of clay around the slab. Then, with a band of clay placed on the middle of e the the back of
 as you see, & at the widest place, divide your mold . Subsequently, oil with your paintbrush dedicated for this the
 the widest place, divide your mold. Subsequently, oil with your paintbrush dedicated for this the half of the shell you want
 water, so that without burning yourself, you can hold your finger in it without burning yourself, your sand, a little p
 the turtle is thus desp molded, separate it, with its half mold , from the clay slab that you will set aside
 desp molded, separate it, with its half mold, from the clay slab that you will set aside to return it to when
 return it to when it is necessary. Next, clean your half mold & smooth it & flatten, like the others. But because
 others. But because it happens that because u of the clay entredeux , the half mold will consist of more than half
 it happens that because u of the clay entredeux, the half mold will consist of more than half of the turtle, cut
 pare down smoothly the excess, & clean everything well with brushes . Then, make on the top edge of the mold,
 with brushes. Then, make on the top edge of the mold , on the side that is cut & halfway, two
 that is cut & halfway, two notches, like for other molds , and return your turtle to its slab as it
 like for other molds, and return your turtle to its slab as it was, & secure its two legs, which are
 & secure its two legs, which are not molded, with iron wire points . And stuff all around what is empty, up until
 edge of the top shell, with clay. Next, place the circle around and put a clay entredeulx on the first mold,
 with clay. Next, place the circle around and put a clay entredeulx on the first mold, a little above the notches. And
 circle around and put a clay entredeulx on the first mold , a little above the notches. And having oiled the
 little above the notches. And having oiled the d first half mold , & its notches, and the shell of the turtle,
 & cast. Having set, adapt the sides of these two molds smoothly, & on each side secure their joint, which can
 their joint, which can only just be perceived, with two clamps , in order that when uncovering afterward the underneath of
 burn it. And afterward, to make the hollow, the reheated mold cannot be oiled because it drinks the oil. + If
 is some crocum in the sand, the joints of the molds can hardly be perceived. Turn to the second leaf. Casting
 be perceived. Turn to the second leaf. Casting in three frames One casts in three frames bronze mortars & similar things,
 second leaf. Casting in three frames One casts in three frames bronze mortars & similar things, which are easily released, namely
 leaf. Casting in three frames One casts in three frames bronze mortars & similar things, which are easily released, namely the body
 things, which are easily released, namely the body of the mortar in one, the two frames the core in the other.
 namely the body of the mortar in one, the two frames the core in the other. And the bottom of the
 the core in the other. And the bottom of the mortar core in unthe third one, for small work because otherwise
 that is in it would not be released. Inquire A Cuttlefish bone One ought not to cast either tin or lead too
 lead too hot in it, for it would burn the bone & come out lumpy. And to know when it is
 know when it is at a good heat, dip a little piece of twisted paper into it. If it blackens it without lighting, it is
 To mold something delicate well, it is necessary that the bone be not so dry If, for it is brittle &
 the fire, they cry & crackle once brought near the ear . Then, join them & lute the joints with a
 crackle once brought near the ear. Then, join them & lute the joints with a little clay, & make it dry
 lightly by the fire, & cast, & then shake the mold or scratch over rough scales, & let it cool before
 & let it cool before opening. Usually one cuts the bone in the middle, and the dullest part and that which
 sides. One smooths & flattens these two halves on some smooth wood , then one scrapes charcoal on top to make it
 the side of the hand that holds half of the bone . Once both charcoaled, one takes the main bone that
 of the bone. Once both charcoaled, one takes the main bone that is prepared & rounded on the sides, and having
 one tightens and presses it quite strongly. But because the fingers do not press evenly, for one if you press on
 put on the medal something flat & smooth, or some large square filee , & press with this, for you will press equally,
 for you will press equally, sometimes after l with your knee , other times with your foot with your shoe taken
 sometimes after l with your knee, other times with your foot with your shoe taken off, & make the bone be
 your foot with your shoe taken off, & make the bone be on top; thus you l’emprand will imprint it without
 & smooth on the sides your d halves of molded bone . & And to cut it well, always begin coming
 your medal does not come out by itself, scratch the bone from the back, which is rugged, and it will release.
 When you want to cast, secure & join your two bones with some small points of wood, &c. But to mold
 to cast, secure & join your two bones with some small points of wood , &c. But to mold very neatly, there is only
 are not strong enough to hold themselves upright, pass a thread through the mold to keep them from rising up, &
 enough to hold themselves upright, pass a thread through the mold to keep them from rising up, & cast the sand
 become lumpy. Because you did not put in this a clay slab , the mold sometimes holds to the table where you
 you did not put in this a clay slab, the mold sometimes holds to the table where you cast it. To
 this a clay slab, the mold sometimes holds to the table where you cast it. To undo it, hit a great
 it. To undo it, hit a great blow of a hammer at the side of the table. Molding plants and flowers
 great blow of a hammer at the side of the table . Molding plants and flowers One does not need clay
 the table. Molding plants and flowers One does not need clay slabs , because plants or flowers are not laid on top
 without touching on any side anything. & Only the es circle & contour are needed, which should be higher than for
 on any side anything. & Only the es circle & contour are needed, which should be higher than for flat molds.
 & contour are needed, which should be higher than for flat molds . And thus, take heed to make it strong and
 in some good eau-de-vie, or else moin placed in a long glass It is enough to reheat your luted mold once for
 in a long glass It is enough to reheat your luted mold once for flowers & to heat it the second
 a long glass It is enough to reheat your luted mold once for flowers & to heat it the second time
 reheat it twice. Cast your tin very red in the mold , of such heat that you can hold your finger
 the mold, of such heat that you can hold your finger there without harm in the hole. in order that it
 it gets wet everywhere; if not, wet it with a large paintbrush dedicated to this. Then, pass through the end of the
 dedicated to this. Then, pass through the end of the mold which closes the circle your bit of iron wire, which
 pass through the end of the mold which closes the circle your bit of iron wire, which holds the wax gate,
 of the mold which closes the circle your bit of iron wire , which holds the wax gate, and cleave with it
 which holds the wax gate, and cleave with it the clay closure , as you see, & it place it low, so
 touches no thing & can leave enough thickness for the mold , for the tempered sand always raises the plant or
 if it is not stiff by itself, pass with a needle some thin thread po on the flower to keep it
 is not stiff by itself, pass with a needle some thin thread po on the flower to keep it from rising. Or,
 you were to forget, lower the flower with some b small stick until the cast sand begins to d thicken. Your flower
 d thicken. Your flower being well arranged, d choose a bowl big enough to temper in it as much sand as
 it as much sand as it takes to fill your mold . Put in a little sal ammoniac water, then some
 sal ammoniac water, then some fountain water. And when the au en bowl is nearly full, put in, by sprinkling, your sand, &
 for if it were to coagulate, it would spoil the mold . For flowers, it does not want to be so
 bubbles disappear. Next, finish filling & blow always. Make the mold lean a little toward its widest part, and if you
 ferri is safer for flowers, and when there is crocum, lute with the same sand that has served, and is the
 of lead. If there is some flashing, repair with a penknife . Uncover the molded flower by gently undoing the mold
 a penknife. Uncover the molded flower by gently undoing the mold with the point of a knife, & better yet, wet
 the molded flower by gently undoing the mold with the point of a knife , & better yet, wet it well in water. Next,
 & better yet, wet it well in water. Next, use small hog bristle brushes , a bit of iron wire, &c. When the mold
 water. Next, use small hog bristle brushes, a bit of iron wire , &c. When the mold is reheated the first time,
 bristle brushes, a bit of iron wire, &c. When the mold is reheated the first time, leave it to half cool,
 to half cool, then gently pass through the gate an iron wire to make an opening for the burned ashes inside. Next,
 opening for the burned ashes inside. Next, blow inside with bellows , then turn the mold at the gate to make
 ashes inside. Next, blow inside with bellows, then turn the mold at the gate to make everything come out, & sometimes
 come out, & sometimes suck and draw out with the mouth . Take heed not to attach the tail of the
 all around a little, & then pull it with your little pincers by the tail of iron. Molding turtles This is the
 released, put in some small pieces of wax, & with points of hot, thick iron wire , stretch & adapt the said wax. Then, bouch stuff
 soft clay the entrance of all its cavities. Put the clay circle around your mold, made already of two pieces, which contains
 of all its cavities. Put the clay circle around your mold , made already of two pieces, which contains the back
 you see. That is to say, you will put an entre deulx of clay on top of the throat & another on the edge
 temper with hot water as before. Having set, remove these entredeulx of clay , then uncover well the front & back legs, that
 away or let go, attach & rejoin it to the mold with some wax & the point of hot iron. Do
 rejoin it to the mold with some wax & the point of hot iron . Do not forget to put some po melted wax
 make the vent. Your belly shell molded and uncovered, your mold can be seen thus. in such a way that only
 heed to make a border of melted wax, with a hot iron , all around the edge of the top shell which
 is to make the vent better. This done, oil your mold and what appears of the shell. Put the circle around
 your mold and what appears of the shell. Put the circle around & cast with hot water, as before, observing there
 which is the tail. And having set, you uncover your mold remove the clay contour, clean your mold, & smooth it
 tail. And having set, you uncover your mold remove the clay contour , clean your mold, & smooth it & flatten it
 you uncover your mold remove the clay contour, clean your mold , & smooth it & flatten it on all sides
 smooth it & flatten it on all sides with a knife , like for other molds. Dip it lightly in water,
 it on all sides with a knife, like for other molds . Dip it lightly in water, then try to release
 the back shell, it is that is to say, the mold on top, which is in two halves, and this one
 it is sometimes awkward. Thus, when moving & pulling the mold gently, take heed to pull the one which will present
 pi the broken pieces. For you can reassemble them with points of rather strong iron & fill the crack or fault that could be there
 fault that could be there with melted wax & the hot iron , as with others, in order that the core for
 paper. I have cast very hot in the very red mold , and have put in the melted substance of this
 wanted to cast pure silver. This alloy is white in bullitoire , like any alloys which resemble, however little, ☾. For
 however little, ☾. For casting something delicate, use this one. Lute There is no better than the one that has which
 that has which you have molded, namely pieces from your molds . But one needs to choose those better reheated. Crucible
 your molds. But one needs to choose those better reheated. Crucible Take heed that it is three fingers from fe the
 it is three fingers from fe the mouth of the bellows , & that the said bellows beats from us underneath
 fe the mouth of the bellows, & that the said bellows beats from us underneath the bottom of the crucible, otherwise
 said bellows beats from us underneath the bottom of the crucible , otherwise it would cool it. Casting of latten I
 cool it. Casting of latten I took the one of latten skillets, which are beaten & forged thinly . I Once well heated, I cast in it two
 raw & pure. I cast it in its very red mold . It came out very neat & thin like paper,
 common salt. Once well boiled, I rubbed it with a scratch-brush in clear water. And because the first time it had
 it cool, put it again to the whitening & the scratch-brush . It came out very neatly. You will do thus
 for latten Having cleaned it well, as is said, & scratch-brushed it well, make it boil in water & turmeric root
 do not pestle your tartar with iron but with the handle of a hammer , for if you touch & dip iron in your
 ferri To make this quickly, redden the filings in an iron case , stirring it often. Then sprinkle it with good vinegar
 let it redden & inflame. Once cooled, pulverize it on marble & return it to the fire, rou sprinkle with vinegar,
 made fine. Molding turtles Next, reassemble the parts of your mold and clamp carefully all the joints, as much as above
 Molding turtles Next, reassemble the parts of your mold and clamp carefully all the joints, as much as above & below
 sides, having not forgotten to notch the joints of the molds , as with others. Having clamped it all, undo the
 notch the joints of the molds, as with others. Having clamped it all, undo the clamps on the side & not
 molds, as with others. Having clamped it all, undo the clamps on the side & not the others. And thus, your
 on the side & not the others. And thus, your mold of several pieces sem will open as if it were
 hollow, make in the middle of the of the part mold of the belly a hole, from side to side, which,
 way hollow, and in cha this fashion, to make a mold well, one really needs three days. Take heed in hollow
 really needs three days. Take heed in hollow & fanciful molds to have some strong plaster, which endures the fire without
 is easily undone. Also, do not forget to tighten your molds well with a press to avoid flashing which is made
 do not forget to tighten your molds well with a press to avoid flashing which is made either when the mold
 press to avoid flashing which is made either when the mold is not well joined or when it bursts. To repair,
 features are not apparent enough, retrace them lightly with a burin , then soften them with a small chisel. The flashing
 them lightly with a burin, then soften them with a small chisel . The flashing is removed with the chaple, a type
 with a small chisel. The flashing is removed with the chaple , a type of burin. For the lumps & scales,
 The flashing is removed with the chaple, a type of burin . For the lumps & scales, they are made either
 the lumps & scales, they are made either with a little gouge or a little round cutting-punch, or with the point of
 they are made either with a little gouge or a little round cutting-punch , or with the point of a small chisel, not
 little gouge or a little round cutting-punch, or with the point of a small chisel , not tempered, & struck on a small file. Make
 of a small chisel, not tempered, & struck on a small file . Make this hole before molding joining your molds. Softening
 a small file. Make this hole before molding joining your molds . Softening iron and rendering it very soft Take sublimate,
 iron with it, & envelop it in this with some bad linen . Then make it reheat until it is very red.
 Various arts from Germany They are very much helped by water mills , & most of the artisans of metals, of gold,
 & others, make have their large works beaten with these trip hammers . And to draw iron wire, they redden large masses
 plate get whatever wooden forms they please turned on a lathe . And then, with some wax, they model on top
 and their wings extended, one would need a very large mold & it would not be certain that the metal would
 of fine lead and 4 ℥ es of fine tin. Molds They are less subject to cracking while reheating when they
 plaster is not strong. It is better to reheat a mold on its own than several together, because one needs a
 one. And, glowing charcoal stopping up the space between the molds , the heat reverberates from one to the other in
 such a way that more often you will find your molds burst & cracked on one side more than another. Therefore
 cracked on one side more than another. Therefore reheat your molds alone, not making fire there, except to cover it. And
 for giving bond, it would not be necessary. The reheated molds cannot withstand several casts. But those in which one wants
 scales render them very firm & strong.. Molding hollow This iron wire point , which is put thus bi through the hole, is
 shifting. All of this being d thus arranged, lay your mold on the table, the hole at the top, as it
 this being d thus arranged, lay your mold on the table , the hole at the top, as it is marked
 is marked here on the side, & then adapt a circle of soft clay aultr, two fingers high, around the hole, like for other
 aultr, two fingers high, around the hole, like for other molds . And then temper your molding sand moderately thick, &
 is well well filled, up to the surface of the clay circle . But take heed to not cast r in through
 but rather from the side, for, since the already made mold drinks and sucks the moisture of the new, the new
 cast in which dries quickly on the edge of the mold , being quickly dry, s would obstruct the mold, &
 of the mold, being quickly dry, s would obstruct the mold , & it would not finish filling. And when you
 blow on the f the wet gate, & put the end of your finger in the hole a few times, po or some small
 finger in the hole a few times, po or some small point , to unblock it, & make the hollow wax fill
 sand, tempered a little thick to give strength to the mold , for water coming to the surface s of the
 mold, for water coming to the surface s of the mold always makes it softer. Having set, scrape off the clay
 mold always makes it softer. Having set, scrape off the clay circle & the excess which is on the hole through which
 cast the noyau, & nothing will be discernable. When your mold is thus prepared, lute it all around with the same
 nothing will be discernable. When your mold is thus prepared, lute it all around with the same sand which served for
 all around with the same sand which served for the molds . Next, reheat it in a slow fire at the
 inside & leave some pustules & lumpy things, although This point is placed in the middle & through the hole of
 middle & through the hole of the gate when the mold is in several pieces, like a turtle, and this is
 order that the core does not shake. But when the mold is only of two pieces, it is not necessary to
 only of two pieces, it is not necessary to put points in the middle of it. Before casting the core, make
 want to cast, in order to always better secure the mold . Mixed tallow is the reason that, when emptying the
 mostly lead remains hot a long time & eats the mold . You can, after the cast is done, mold a
 your core is cast, it is better to put the mold in hot water to open it, in order to remove
 in order that, when reboiling in large quantity in the mold when you reheat it, no pustules or lumps are made
 not need to reheat it as much. When opening the mold , the cast will break. But it can easily be
 by blowing through the gate. You could even open your mold after the wax has melted, if there is no fanciful
 like some reattached thing or similar. After having covered the clamps with the lute from your sand & having covered all
 thing or similar. After having covered the clamps with the lute from your sand & having covered all of the mold,
 lute from your sand & having covered all of the mold , give it on top a layer of common lute,
 of the mold, give it on top a layer of common lute , & then sprinkle this with some pestled brick, in
 layer of common lute, & then sprinkle this with some pestled brick, in order that you can handle it better. Let
 in order that you can handle it better. Let the lute dry slowly before firing it, which melts the wax. The
 the charcoal will burn. Being reheated for the first time, lute it pou once more, to reheat it the second time
 the plaster, not being good, will have readily made the mold retract, and the joints will crack open, which might make
 lead or tin, but rather only make sure that the lute is quite dry & the mold moderately hot. For these
 make sure that the lute is quite dry & the mold moderately hot. For these turtles that have a large size
 lead for things weighty & with the thickness of the back of a knife . If there is crocum, the joints hardly appear, &
 When you have cast your black wax in the a mold , & when it is quite cold, you need to
 it is quite cold, you need to the open your mold halfway, to make the cast. And if the figure of
 no danger, for it can always be reattached with a hot iron touching point . Or else, if the pieces are not separated from
 Or else, if the pieces are not separated from the mold , qu they meet up & join like beforehand by
 by joining & binding well the two halves of the mold . When the figure is large, one needs to cross
 the figure is large, one needs to cross inside many iron wires to sustain the core. A only in lead or tin.
 in lead or tin. However, one needs to redden the mold nearly as much as if there were inside some animal
 nothing inside & flows on its own by keeping the mold leaning toward the gate when reheating it. And when the
 leaning toward the gate when reheating it. And when the mold is reheated, leave it to cool gently, then blow inside,
 the ashes of the wax come out. Do this with bellows . however, do not remove it until you have completely
 if you need to embed something or repair with the small chisel . If there is some flashing at the joints of
 If there is some flashing at the joints of the mold , you will remove it, either with the burin called
 of the mold, you will remove it, either with the burin called a chaple or a very sharp penknife, or with
 you will remove it, either with the burin called a chaple or a very sharp penknife, or with a small file,
 it, either with the burin called a chaple or a very sharp penknife , or with a small file, & then with the
 a chaple or a very sharp penknife, or with a small file , & then with the small chisel, always having the
 penknife, or with a small file, & then with the small chisel , always having the natural one, to do this better,
 better, in front of you. You can curl on a file the point of a small chisel which is not quenched
 You can curl on a file the point of a small chisel which is not quenched to make something lumpy. For these
 is more work in molding a turtle than for twelve molds of flowers. If there is some crocum in your sand,
 it will be thinner than paper, as long as your mold is tightened well with a press. And to make the
 as long as your mold is tightened well with a press . And to make the scales of turtles or other
 scales of turtles or other animals, you can make some little small chisels in the fashion of a round cutting-punch, others in the
 make some little small chisels in the fashion of a round cutting-punch , others in the fashion of a gouge or the
 of a round cutting-punch, others in the fashion of a gouge or the scale of a snake & lizard, and others
 scale of a snake & lizard, and others on a file to make the curly & lumpy bits. The turtles which
 they are molded in two pieces, to repair them with small chisels , small cutting-punches, small gouges & small serrated chisels. Wheat
 molded in two pieces, to repair them with small chisels, small cutting-punches , small gouges & small serrated chisels. Wheat oil One
 two pieces, to repair them with small chisels, small cutting-punches, small gouges & small serrated chisels. Wheat oil One needs to make
 repair them with small chisels, small cutting-punches, small gouges & small serrated chisels . Wheat oil One needs to make it between two
 Wheat oil One needs to make it between two quite sparkling hot iron plates , especially the lower one, which will be sloping, on
 hinder good molding, burn it in the fire of a little candle . The rest of the body should be anointed with
 will be quick, you will be able to pass a very thin comb to divide it, in order that it appears in the
 dry & amiable. Shape it, before oiling it, on the clay slab , and raise its head with an iron point, &
 on the clay slab, and raise its head with an iron point , & secure also the feet with points, & the
 with an iron point, & secure also the feet with points , & the tail. Rub it with eau-de-vie, once dry
 make the second cast. One ought not to open the mold until it is reheated & the rat burned. + The
 biggish bones, like a bird or rat, without opening the mold to clean it well, for bones do not calcine. All
 entrails, or, having molded it, to dry it in the oven , because the large amount of moisture that it has
 of moisture that it has comes to boil in the mold , & spoils it & makes it lumpy. Do not
 spoils it & makes it lumpy. Do not put your mold in the cold until it has slowly cooled dry. Otherwise
 you have cast makes flashing, either through fault in the mold , or from the cast, or from the metal. The
 the cast, or from the metal. The fault in the mold comes from plaster, which is not hard & strong and
 to cast. If, therefore, some flaw should happen, take a leather cushionet full of fine sand, & having placed it on the
 sand, & having placed it on the bequet of the goldsmith’s table , where one files, place your work on it &
 it on the bequet of the goldsmith’s table, where one files , place your work on it & secure it with
 place your work on it & secure it with a rope which passes under your foot. The sand in the bag
 & secure it with a rope which passes under your foot . The sand in the bag obeys & arranges itself
 rope which passes under your foot. The sand in the bag obeys & arranges itself by and by, thick on one
 side & thin on the other. Then, forthwith, with a burin , make & trace roughly the fine lines which were
 omitted or which are not apparent enough, or with a file or a chaple, remove the flashing. And if there is
 are not apparent enough, or with a file or a chaple , remove the flashing. And if there is some fault
 left some pit or too-hollow thing, rescrape this with a burin and notch around the edge, then imprint this with some
 this with some wax. And place the imprint on a delicate plate of lead , & mark thus the appropriate measure of lead or
 of the notched thing & attach it well with some latten wire , then rub the edge with rosin if it is
 of solder or tin or other things, then with a hot iron or in the fire of the forge, solder, and next
 with a hot iron or in the fire of the forge , solder, and next repair this with the aforesaid tools
 repair this with the aforesaid tools & with the appropriate small chisels . For gold & small work, one needs to cement
 a ball of lead, which will be placed on the cushionet & will be held thus with the rope. Molding hollow
 on the cushionet & will be held thus with the rope . Molding hollow for seals or other things First, model
 First, model your figure in wax on a piece of glass or smooth slate . Next, mold it with our aforesaid sand, l’ having
 if it is lightly anointed with crushed chalk with a paintbrush , or smoked with candle smoke or with dried glair
 anointed with crushed chalk with a paintbrush, or smoked with candle smoke or with dried glair of egg. When you have
 that you wish to a medal Having cast your first mold , mix crocum or well-ground iron scales to firm it
 paste of fine flour. And to flatten it, take a small stick of boxwood , very round & of the same thickness everywhere, which
 the necessary thickness to the paste. And then, with this rolling pin , flatten it in such a way that it is
 thin enough. Then apply it on the hollow of your mold and press on it with some cotton & your figure
 hollow of your mold and press on it with some cotton & your figure will imprint itself in the paste, in
 hollow form on the other. This done, anoint with a paintbrush , wetted in a little melted butter, the part of
 cut the excess paste which surpasses the hollow of the mold H. Anoint your mold also with olive oil, as you
 which surpasses the hollow of the mold H. Anoint your mold also with olive oil, as you have done with others,
 olive oil, as you have done with others, place the clay contour & cast s your second mold. And you will have
 others, place the clay contour & cast s your second mold . And you will have your medal as thin &
 one side as you will want. You can have diverse rolling pins , which will have ends, some more raised than others,
 more raised than others, to make various thicknesses, or use sheets of lead & copper of various thicknesses or of carton, cut with the rolling
 sheets of lead & copper of various thicknesses or of carton , cut with the rolling pin. If you were to
 copper of various thicknesses or of carton, cut with the rolling pin . If you were to rub your paste with oil,
 it would drink the oil & penetrate up to the mold , which it would attack. But butter remains on the
 not rough. It tests better in a large & fantastical mold than in a small one, for the large one remains
 Because it is fatty & grips & sticks to the knife or chisel, wet it & you will cut it like
 is fatty & grips & sticks to the knife or chisel , wet it & you will cut it like glass.
 fine copper. Iron scales Once well pulverized & ground on marble , & mixed with the aforesaid sand of noyau, and
 metal, melted to assemble them & put them in a bath , for they are sooner burned than melted. Tin and
 reason, one casts solder bran on the solder. Let the mold cool well after the casting before opening it. Reinforcing flowers
 to strengthen them & make them hold up. with a small paintbrush Strawberries The leaves are cast separately & then are joined
 sometimes very spread out & would make too large a mold , one makes and molds them separately, and the rose
 leaf or rose as low as you can in the mold because the sand always raises it up. You en can
 arranged one on top of the other, separating them with threads , as is said. And regarding the rose, you can
 flattened without spoiling them with two gates, for opening your mold when it is reheated, & cleaning the ashes from it,
 cast. Aulcu The principal thing is to let your reheated molds cool down well rather than cleaning them & blowing inside
 them to make the wax come out, because when the mold is hot, the ash holds to it as if attached.
 Wet the rose with eau-de-vie before putting it in the circle of clay . Do not forget to oil the wax gate. And
 the bud, on which one grafts next & solders a stalk of latten wire to which one also solders the leaves. But because tin,
 melting it & applying it on your work with a small hot point of iron . In this way you can repair these little barbs
 it & holds very well, fixing it with a few small points which serve as nails. The leaves & buds can be
 fixing it with a few small points which serve as nails . The leaves & buds can be molded in two
 nails. The leaves & buds can be molded in two molds that can be opened once reheated, but not before. Next,
 relief. And then on that wax you will make your mold en noyau hollow, to cast there the relief of gold
 is done & dried by fire, brighten, rub with a scratch-brush , & make another layer of light gilding like the
 better, it is necessary to cast cast in base silver. Chasing Lead is so fatty & soft that one cannot strike
 light hand. The other great metals are easier. With a burin called the onglet you make & retrace the more delicate
 other great metals are easier. With a burin called the onglet you make & retrace the more delicate lines, with the
 you make & retrace the more delicate lines, with the ordinary engraving burin the broader ones, and with the chaple you remove the
 the ordinary engraving burin the broader ones, and with the chaple you remove the big flashing, and with the small chisels
 the chaple you remove the big flashing, and with the small chisels you soften the harshness of the lines, you smooth, you
 leaf with a little wax, melted & reattached with a hot iron wire point . And in order that the wings come out better,
 anointed the underside of these with melted butter with a little paintbrush . And with the same hot iron wire point, I
 melted butter with a little paintbrush. And with the same hot iron wire point , I anointed the legs & feet with wheat oil.
 the bottom in order with melted wax, adapted with the iron point , as you know, to which the fly attaches itself,
 have cast it in it, & with trim with some scissors what one needs to reattach there, & next, apply it
 needs to reattach there, & next, apply it with your small pincers & glue it with fish glue, prepared as put below.
 of ceruse or lead white, melting it well with a hot iron point . You will also cut some small bits of spinet
 means of goldsmiths for molding hollow They mold in two cuttlefish bones their animal or other work that they have either already
 in lead. Once it is well imprinted in the two cuttlefish bones , they place between these two bones a paper, &
 in the two cuttlefish bones, they place between these two bones a paper, & join the bones & cast. The work
 two cuttlefish bones, they place between these two bones a paper , & join the bones & cast. The work comes
 place between these two bones a paper, & join the bones & cast. The work comes out split in half. And
 comes out split in half. And then, with ch a chaple , they hollow out as finely as they please the
 on gold, thinly beaten esp & well burnished with a chaple . But it is better to assay it on a
 of large castings), Et especially for silver, which wants the mold quite hot & to be cast very hot. Very thin
 know that the stem of a flower, burned in a mold which does not open, is quite reduced to ashes, it
 swine bristle or spinet string. Fix the leaf on the clay slab with two points, and the fly with one point in
 string. Fix the leaf on the clay slab with two points , and the fly with one point in the middle
 clay slab with two points, and the fly with one point in the middle of the body, & the legs with
 body, & the legs with some wax. Ash in the molds One needs to let the mold cool before blowing to
 wax. Ash in the molds One needs to let the mold cool before blowing to make the ashes go out. For
 blowing to make the ashes go out. For when the mold is hot, they adhere against it, & once cold, they
 to do this, place it on its side on a clay slab , and hide & sink within it half the said
 by quicksilver If nor by any other means, if the mold would not open, uncover the bottom of the feet &
 & mold as a separate piece. Reheat & open your mold & clean the bones. The feet usually remain too weak
 a solid bird. And for this reason, one adapts an iron wire in the mold of the feet which passes into the
 for this reason, one adapts an iron wire in the mold of the feet which passes into the body before casting;
 thus, they are reinforced. Some mold the wings in a frame . Others mold the head & the said wings separately
 withstand the tempered sand. They are skinned & filled with cotton cloth . & even better, one needs to dress them in
 paste of flour. For making h… wine f…rs Take a sock from the right d foot that has been worn and make drink at it soak in water, and of
 drink it, and you will see marvels. Mercury in the molds for cleaning Heed well that your mold be quite cold
 Mercury in the molds for cleaning Heed well that your mold be quite cold before blowing to make the ash go
 in the ☿ to achieve the cleaning. For if the mold is hot, the ☿ penetrates within &, in flight, seeks
 if it touches it even slightly. The heat of the mold also retains small grains of ☿ that make lumps, &
 in the ☿, evacuate it, turning the mouth of the mold downwards. Next, reheat the mold gently in order that the
 turning the mouth of the mold downwards. Next, reheat the mold gently in order that the ☿ be gone from everywhere.
 melted butter on the back of the flower with a paintbrush . Reheat the mold very red before q casting in
 the back of the flower with a paintbrush. Reheat the mold very red before q casting in it, in order that
 as not to cover the lines of the work. Large molds Because of the great weight of the metal, they want
 of the metal, they want to be put in a press in order that they do not open. Candle smoke It
 in a press in order that they do not open. Candle smoke It makes it come out neater, & even if
 because it has no body. I have thus fumigated my noyau molds for tin & lead, and have cast in the cold
 for tin & lead, and have cast in the cold mold , well dried beforehand, and it came out very neat.
 times to lift off the varnish, which sticks to the mold . After it is removed, you will be able to
 the wood with very hot melted wax, for otherwise the mold would be attached to it. Lead white is much better
 wax than ceruse, for lead white is firmer & whiter. Chiseling If the small chisel has passed through some part of
 for lead white is firmer & whiter. Chiseling If the small chisel has passed through some part of a portrait, one needs
 glue Beat it very fine & thin on a well-cleaned anvil , & next wet it with eau-de-vie over ch hot
 heed them not to put it to melt in a fatty vessel , but in a new one, if you can. It
 And you will be able to clean them either with hot charcoal or a scratch brush made of wires of latten. Carnation
 able to clean them either with hot charcoal or a scratch brush made of wires of latten. Carnation It is molded like the rose, marigold & all
 even if you could mold them together in a closed mold . I cast one that came out very well. But
 But one needs very thin sand & to blow strongly. Molds Make the two sides so that they are, es if
 casting, for they are rendered musty & moist, & the mold is undone & loses its strength. The part where the
 quickly than otherwise. One needs to oil very lightly your molds that are of metal or stone, otherwise it would not
 in boiling water. Sometimes one even needs to make the mold boil in hot water, as when you have molded some
 plaster that has sucked it in, & thus it releases. Press for the large molds They are two sheets of iron
 it in, & thus it releases. Press for the large molds They are two sheets of iron attached by four small
 it releases. Press for the large molds They are two sheets of iron attached by four small iron pillars, in such a way,
 molds They are two sheets of iron attached by four small iron pillars , in such a way, however, that they the upper
 to have play & run freely the length of the pillars , & that the lower one is fixed. At the
 the lower one is fixed. At the end of the pillars is affixed an iron St. Andrew's cross, in the middle
 St. Andrew's cross, in the middle of which is a screw which tightens the sheets against the molds which are between
 the middle of which is a screw which tightens the sheets against the molds which are between the two. Or, for
 which is a screw which tightens the sheets against the molds which are between the two. Or, for small molds, one
 the molds which are between the two. Or, for small molds , one makes a frame, & having put the molds
 between the two. Or, for small molds, one makes a frame , & having put the molds between two plates of
 small molds, one makes a frame, & having put the molds between two plates of iron, one sets tightens them in
 makes a frame, & having put the molds between two plates of iron , one sets tightens them in the frame with wedges.
 two plates of iron, one sets tightens them in the frame with wedges. The large wooden presses made with screws, besides
 of iron, one sets tightens them in the frame with wedges . The large wooden presses made with screws, besides being
 one sets tightens them in the frame with wedges. The large wooden presses made with screws , besides being heavy to put near to the forge
 with screws, besides being heavy to put near to the forge for casting, one cannot know when they tighten too much,
 they tighten too much, & very often, they break the mold . The screw is riveted to this stirrup, which is
 too much, & very often, they break the mold. The screw is riveted to this stirrup, which is nailed onto the
 they break the mold. The screw is riveted to this stirrup , which is nailed onto the upper plate, & by
 mold. The screw is riveted to this stirrup, which is nailed onto the upper plate, & by this means, raises it
 riveted to this stirrup, which is nailed onto the upper plate , & by this means, raises it & presses it.
 the upper plate, & by this means, raises it & presses it. Sand for flowers If it is cast thick, it
 the flower is covered. Cast at the side of the mold . And tempering the sand, one ought not only to
 tempering the sand, one ought not only to turn the spatula but to beat the sand in water as if you
 be enameled. Catching crayfish Attach to the tip of a stick some liver or lung of a cow or sheep, &
 lung of a cow or sheep, & with a small string you make a basket hang from the tip of the
 or sheep, & with a small string you make a basket hang from the tip of the said stick. Put in
 make a basket hang from the tip of the said stick . Put in water where crayfish eat, & they will
 to go back into the water will fall into the basket . Catching passerines If they sleep in straw, like they
 house, leave the closest window open & put in a lighted candle , but so that the candle is hidden & that
 & put in a lighted candle, but so that the candle is hidden & that its light only appears throughout the
 with stuffing cloth &, or else dry them in an oven #. Then arrange them on the trees, & have someone
 & you will gather them & catch many. in an oven that is scarcely hot In winter. ilAnd in summer this
 prepared better & dry by themselves. Preparation of sand for frames After your sand de noyau dalu of gip of lateribus
 noyau, gather the pieces of molds, break them on a long table with a large billet in order to pulverizes them well,
 of molds, break them on a long table with a large billet in order to pulverizes them well, and, better yet, sieve
 billet in order to pulverizes them well, and, better yet, sieve it finely. Put them in some pots into the tiler’s
 and, better yet, sieve it finely. Put them in some pots into the tiler’s oven or bread oven, several times when
 sieve it finely. Put them in some pots into the tiler’s oven or bread oven, several times when it is well lit,
 Put them in some pots into the tiler’s oven or bread oven , several times when it is well lit, in order
 very red. Once cooled, repestle them, if need be, and sieve . Next, put it in a neat, adequate dish or
 be, and sieve. Next, put it in a neat, adequate dish or semal or vessel, and wet it with clear water,
 sieve. Next, put it in a neat, adequate dish or semal or vessel, and wet it with clear water, and grind
 put it in a neat, adequate dish or semal or vessel , and wet it with clear water, and grind it
 with clear water, and grind it & stir with a thick stick until it is well wetted & washed & the filth
 which will be on top by tilting or with a bowl or sponge, and put some clear water back in, &
 be on top by tilting or with a bowl or sponge , and put some clear water back in, & thus
 l, put them to reheat at great heat in a reverberatory furnace , where they should be be quite red, a good
 are reheated in this way, pulverize them & try to mold something in a frame, having moistened your powder with sal
 way, pulverize them & try to mold something in a frame , having moistened your powder with sal ammoniac water. And
 powder with sal ammoniac water. And reheat & redden the frame , & if your sand retracts, one needs to pulverize
 continue so many times that it does retract from the frame when you redden it. The main thing is that it
 wet it all and le empty the liquid in another common vessel , leaving the litharge, in order that the stones &
 you put the filings, well cleaned & washed, in an iron case , two fingers high & covered, & redden it thus
 fingers high & covered, & redden it thus in a reverberatory furnace , having washed it in good vinegar for the space
 well burnt p & clean, mixed and ground finely on marble . Being well ground & once it is quite fine
 more tincture. Others burn the filings several times on a reddened iron shovel , showering it each time with vinegar. For the workshop
 burned in a closed fire, can be used for a frame for lead and molds very neatly. But such things do
 apparent, and thus the molded foot will be more artistic. Molds of things that do not release Animals that do not
 that do not release can only be molded in two molds , which should not be opened until after they are
 one does or whatever quicksilver one puts there, or a feather quill during molding to use as a gate. This is why
 why one molds in two halves, in order that, the mold being opened after having been reheated, the burned thing can
 let it cool well, in order that, when removing the clamps , being hot, and when it is most frangible, something
 & ashes that it leaves & which adhere to the mold while it is hot are removed better once cold. Note
 cold. Note also that on the bottom side of the mold , when you reheat, the animal which boils leaves some
 some filth. And, on this occasion, one always marks the mold where the back of the animal is, in order that,
 of amber, well broken up. And having put in a small silver bowl a silver spoonful of flower oil, or lacking that, ben
 And having put in a small silver bowl a silver spoonful of flower oil, or lacking that, ben oil, that is
 or lacking that, ben oil, that is to say, a silver spoon that one uses at the table, put in your ambergris
 it melt, & mix it well together. Next, take your gloves , well-cleaned & well-dried, & dipping the tip of your
 Next, take your gloves, well-cleaned & well-dried, & dipping the tip of your finger very lightly on on the edge of the oil, spread
 on the edge of the oil, spread it on the glove , little by little & with patience, & rub the
 glove, little by little & with patience, & rub the glove between your hands, & trace the fingers & the stitches,
 remove them & clean their ash, which, staying in the mold , it prevents the metal from running well therein, &
 and to blow out the ash that hinders. Spare no pins , placing them not only in the middle of the
 out and reddened in fire, is very red ground on porphyry and is of the color of Levant bole, & approaching
 also. Repairing It is better to repair little with the burin called onglet, or with that which one calls chaple, or
 It is better to repair little with the burin called onglet , or with that which one calls chaple, or some
 the burin called onglet, or with that which one calls chaple , or some small file. But above all, avoid touching
 onglet, or with that which one calls chaple, or some small file . But above all, avoid touching your work, but only
 the cast. And while repairing, wet & rub with your very small hog bristle brushes . Gate When you make the gate of some delicate
 more marked. Repairing flashing Having gently removed it with the point of a chaple or burin , scrape it with the side of the burin, or
 point of a chaple or burin, scrape it with the side of the burin , or gently with a small file, & rub with
 with the side of the burin, or gently with a small file , & rub with willow charcoal & little brushes. Make
 with a small file, & rub with willow charcoal & little brushes . Make continuous the lines disturbed by the flashing. Leady
 lead which is mixed in works it like in the cupel , and makes it jump in little balls at the
 it jump in little balls at the edges of the crucible & on the charcoal which covers it. It is also
 strongly & with violence, because with the charcoal consolidating, the crucible would lower & the silv could fall over. But when
 lower & the silv could fall over. But when your mold is ready, at that moment, blow strongly to heat well
 Both, once melted, want to be blown from above with small bellows , especially gold, for this removes their fumes & softens
 especially gold, for this removes their fumes & softens them. Molds For those which in which one needs to burn something
 not make any casts before it is reheated. For large molds in which the gate is big and ample, it is
 pressed. But before pressing them, put between them and the press some pieces of plump & thick felt, which is hardly
 before pressing them, put between them and the press some pieces of plump & thick felt , which is hardly yet crushed, for it fills the
 yet crushed, for it fills the concavities & keeps the mold from cracking. The clamps should be placed before reheating or
 fills the concavities & keeps the mold from cracking. The clamps should be placed before reheating or drying it. When the
 drying it. When the earth from which you make the earthen slab to arrange your animal is too soft, the points that
 earthen slab to arrange your animal is too soft, the points that you put in it come out easily & come
 undone when you cast in the sand, & thus the mold spoils and the shape comes undone. Therefore, when you recognize
 the shape comes undone. Therefore, when you recognize that your slab will be too tender & soft, spread on top some
 spread on top some hot ashes & blow with the bellows . Sand If there is not enough good feather alum
 hardens in water. Cast, if possible, all in one go. Molds Even though you cast in lead, the molds want to
 one go. Molds Even though you cast in lead, the molds want to be well dried, especially when they are large,
 a heat as you have noticed before by putting your finger in the hole, cast. And when the mold is large,
 putting your finger in the hole, cast. And when the mold is large, it needs more time to reheat & dry,
 from being rolled up, moisten it from behind with a wet sponge , & you will stretch it very evenly without spoiling
 That which is drawn from lean soil is the best. Molds of fatty plaster ought not to be kept for a
 & to cast. Good plaster keeps a long time in molds . It needs to be well oiled, for it is
 is more difficult to separate the two halves of the molds than when it is mixed. Dragon’s blood It can be
 dies. Repairing snakes and lizards You could well make some puncheons according to the form of their scales, & making some
 there is something broken, you can graft it on with small pieces points of iron or steel wire , & glue with fish glue, & then cover it
 day without touching it. Stance of animals Not only with iron points but with melted wax, animals are secured on the earthen
 points but with melted wax, animals are secured on the earthen slab . Wash them first in clear water, once they have
 in the mixture of vinegar & urine, & with a sponge purge their mouth, eyes, and head of the slaver which
 keep their mouths open, put in a little bit of spinet string , which will not take up space. Keeping animals Having
 hand, take care that this mixture does not touch it. Molds Once molded, do not keep them for a long time,
 corrupting. When they are reheated, the thing comes out better. Lute When reheating, you can use common lute. But when you
 thing comes out better. Lute When reheating, you can use common lute . But when you want to cast, strip the mold
 common lute. But when you want to cast, strip the mold of it & promptly, with a brush, layer the lute
 cast, strip the mold of it & promptly, with a brush , layer the lute of plaster that has been used
 mold of it & promptly, with a brush, layer the lute of plaster that has been used for molds, for it
 layer the lute of plaster that has been used for molds , for it will be dry when it is placed,
 is placed, & cast. One needs to mainly put this lute on the joints. Silver When it quivers once melted, it
 a humid place or the gutter of some roof. Scented candle from Le Mans Among the wax & candle they melt
 roof. Scented candle from Le Mans Among the wax & candle they melt rosin that in France is called of Burgundy,
 the wick. Softening gold Dissolve caput mortuum in distilled vinegar, filter & congeal in salt, & cement ☉ with this, and
 gold Put aquafortis of vitriol on hot ashes. Cover the bottle , that is to say, the mouth, with a tile,
 the bottle, that is to say, the mouth, with a tile , then unstop it & thick fumes will come out;
 shape, but on the inside, they are made like a crucible , narrower on the inside of the breech & becoming
 at the muzzle. One covers them all together, all the forks & pegs & tools which one uses, with a thick
 muzzle. One covers them all together, all the forks & pegs & tools which one uses, with a thick canvas or
 covers them all together, all the forks & pegs & tools which one uses, with a thick canvas or thick cloth
 forks & pegs & tools which one uses, with a thick canvas or thick cloth in order that they do not make
 & tools which one uses, with a thick canvas or thick cloth in order that they do not make any noise. It
 that have a pierced breech, one must have a good gimlet to first make the hole in order that the peg,
 gimlet to first make the hole in order that the peg , which is made in with a gimlet-like point, may
 order that the peg, which is made in with a gimlet -like point, may attach the petard faster & without noise.
 breech. But because the doors are sometimes iron-clad & the iron pegs cannot pierce it, one uses an iron fork made like
 & the iron pegs cannot pierce it, one uses an iron fork made like pincers & another iron rod q made with three claws at
 one uses an iron fork made like pincers & another iron rod q made with three claws at the end , as you see depicted. And in this way, the
 the petard holds itself well & is quickly placed. The iron pegs must extend from the petard with the entire point that
 petard with the entire point that is made like a gimlet , namely by three or 4 fingers, which goes entirely
 one makes from it something like a cocoon or a peg which one puts into the touch-hole, & then, with a
 which one puts into the touch-hole, & then, with a rope wrapped around the end of a stick, one gives fire
 then, with a rope wrapped around the end of a stick , one gives fire & promptly retreats to take cover.
 of 16 or 17 lb are attached promptly with a short hooked peg made like a wimble, & if the petard is of
 attached promptly with a short hooked peg made like a wimble , & if the petard is of a good alloy,
 seventeen lb petard does not blow it up. Some use little bells worn by oxen or mules on a peasant door. Others
 peasant door. Others load two pistol barrels &, with a gimlet & a string, attach them with the muzzle against the
 load two pistol barrels &, with a gimlet & a string , attach them with the muzzle against the door. If
 if one is next to them. A. This is a small peg, hooked like the hinge of a door & made like a gimlet on one end, for quickly
 like the hinge of a door & made like a gimlet on one end, for quickly attaching a small petard with
 30 lb pierced at the breech, through which a large iron peg passes, button-like on one end & made like a gimlet
 peg passes, button-like on one end & made like a gimlet at the point, for quickly attaching the petard against a
 loading the petard & sealing the powder well. E. This Iron fork made in the form of pincers of the height of a man , to quickly place the mortar without a peg. It
 of a man, to quickly place the mortar without a peg . It must be of soft iron in order that
 height or width of the door. F. This is another iron fork of the same height that props up the fork made
 iron fork of the same height that props up the fork made like pincers & also supports the petard, and with its claw at
 petard, and with its claw at the bottom prevents the pincers from recoiling. G. Petard with ear, placed with its peg.
 pincers from recoiling. G. Petard with ear, placed with its peg . H. Knife-like saws to cut a portcullis, if needed.
 recoiling. G. Petard with ear, placed with its peg. H. Knife-like saws to cut a portcullis, if needed. I. The large iron
 Knife-like saws to cut a portcullis, if needed. I. The large iron pegs which traverse & attach the petard. K. These are common
 pegs which traverse & attach the petard. K. These are common iron pegs , very round & covered with canvas, like all the
 covered with canvas, like all the rest, to turn the large iron pegs pierced close to the head. L. Axes that one must
 the large iron pegs pierced close to the head. L. Axes that one must always carry to finish breaking down, if
 by chance the petard has left anything whole. M. A large mallet of wood for knocking down what was begun & weakened by the
 for knocking down what was begun & weakened by the saws or gimlets. N. Are large augers & gimlets of wheelwrights
 down what was begun & weakened by the saws or gimlets . N. Are large augers & gimlets of wheelwrights for
 begun & weakened by the saws or gimlets. N. Are large augers & gimlets of wheelwrights for smoothly cutting a door or
 by the saws or gimlets. N. Are large augers & gimlets of wheelwrights for smoothly cutting a door or window by making large
 window by making large holes close to one another. O. Crutches of the height of a man, which it is necessary
 off & to prevent the portcullis from falling. P. Are small iron pincers for putting some petard low on the straight part of
 putting some petard low on the straight part of the bolt or strap hinge of the door. List of processes Molding
 petard low on the straight part of the bolt or strap hinge of the door. List of processes Molding turtles Furry animals
 Of strawberries Molding diverse pieces Molding a vessel in a frame Molding capilli veneris & plants that need threads for their
 in a frame Molding capilli veneris & plants that need threads for their support Molding a bouquet Rose carnations Molding hollow
 not released Fountains Grottos Diverse mosses applied Molding in three frames Softening iron to engrave it Etching with aquafortis on silver
 pebbles Molding very thin like bimbalotiers do They mold in paper & carton, for neither earth, sand, nor metal would mold
 very thin like bimbalotiers do They mold in paper & carton , for neither earth, sand, nor metal would mold as
 neatly & would not receive. Or else they engrave in stone from Istre the principal side, & the reverse is of paper or
 from Istre the principal side, & the reverse is of paper or carton. Reducing a round figure to a hollow form
 the principal side, & the reverse is of paper or carton . Reducing a round figure to a hollow form You
 & wetted with eau-de-vie according to the above, in the clay slab , then mold this half with some white plaster. Having
 sulfur, as is said, because it leaves nothing in the mold & melts quicker. Wet it in warm urine, & once
 medals of wax or other metal en noyau. And the mold en noyau will render in silver or such metal as
 works of sugar, # having made a hole in your clay slab & having en packed in it half of the figure
 sulfur & a little rosin. Currency medals One makes the relief puncheons of untempered steel, then one tempers them, & with these
 then one tempers them, & with these one strikes on matrices , not reddened in fire, as some think, but on
 matrices, not reddened in fire, as some think, but on steeled iron , reheated & softened, which one quenches afterward. Casting Do
 down. But cast bit by bit & taking your time. Clamps When you put them back the second time, make sure
 put them back the second time, make sure that the mold does not shift. Molds Those of noyau, in being reheated,
 second time, make sure that the mold does not shift. Molds Those of noyau, in being reheated, want to be set
 a little spent, without the air touching them, like the frame molds want to be recu dried in the open & uncovered.
 to be quite hot & of red tin. Cleaning closed molds One needs to let them cool rather than blow inside
 the ash. When cold, they are cleaned better. Take a thin wire of latten or a delicate straw to clean the tail completely, for
 cleaned better. Take a thin wire of latten or a delicate straw to clean the tail completely, for this is what makes
 a small matter, for this can be removed with the chaple , but let the leaves come out well, then the
 paratum ex ruta baccis juniperi simul tusis. Eo aceto extinguantur lateres igniti et vapor excipiatur ore & naribus. This is to preserve
 you do not have this preparation, carry rue & seeds pestled together, then, according to your need, boil them in vinegar
