 Beating syrup of sweet jujubes with water & taking it in the morning loosens the belly. Books to recover The chronicles of Sigebert
 luted, that has a hole in the top. Fusion 7 hours without blowing. The mass was of a beautiful green. I
 ℥, crystal 6 ℥, verdet 2 grains. Soft fusion vi hours , refired 24 hours. The mass was green, yellow &
 ℥, verdet 2 grains. Soft fusion vi hours, refired 24 hours . The mass was green, yellow & red. Sapphire Pebbles
 blacksmith’s salt 4 ℥, sparkling coryal 4 grains. Fusion 6 hours . Counterfeit coral                       + One needs to first
 the resin, & boil it over the brazier a good hour , & until it appears not to be thick, but
 dries both in the shade and in the sun, and overnight , and during the winter as well as in the
 in the shade and in the sun, and overnight, and during the winter as well as in the summer. It is commonly sold
 sun, and overnight, and during the winter as well as in the summer . It is commonly sold 15 sous a lb. A
 a long time to dry & drips more than two months after it has been applied to the planks. But this
 planks. But this one does not drip like that of times past , which was made of linseed oil, garlic boiled in
 of turpentine oil, that is to say a bucket an hour , and no matter which turpentine it may be, whether
 the panel to clean it. Next put it for a quarter of an hour in the sun to make it dry and to revive
 bread crusts, which you will boil in it for a good quarter of an hour . Next, put in one lb of the oil thus
 garlic & onions, and let it boil together for a good quarter of an hour . And when the pitch is well melted & when
 lot of varnish, it needs to boil for at least half a day , for it is better the more it boils. It
 other in quite strong vinegar & leave it for xx4 hours before using it, & all will be tempered. Next spread
 a sponge or linen & leave it thus for xx4 hours & it will be etched. But if you should want
 finger will come against yours. You will make a light at night for someone quite far away, if you place the concave
 it in in eau-de-vie of vinegar white wine for one night , then one melts it on a slow fire. Others
 ball is hot. For making a breach in a wall by night Having made a hole in the wall as you know,
 is by nature very dry, harvesters beat it most often at night in the cool & by moonlight . Which could not be done with another grain that
 sunbeams pass through, and one scarcely beats it until the sun is approaching midday . Quickly after the millet is cut, one needs to
 much in its fertility & c, which one knows well at the next sowing that one makes after that. But above all the grain
 Gascony or baillard in France, makes the earth shake seven years later, according to the common saying. Beans improve & correct
 book. Waste book And first, François du Cros owes from 2nd September 1581 , for 1 cane of cambric at 8 livres per
 sales book at c. 25/ François du Cros owes from 2nd September 1581 , for 1 canne of cambric at 8 livres per
 book at c. 55 / François du Cros owes from 2nd September 1581 , for the merchandise taken by himself, as specified in
 said du Cros has made a bill on the said day , to be paid on St. Andrew’s day next, I
 a bill on the said day, to be paid on St. Andrew’s day next, I make this -- 8 lb t. Counterfeit jasper
 flesh, & with a head band, apply to the eyes at night . For coating with or mat There is nothing better
 wheel, if you have not worked on it in a long time . For molding sulfur Sulfur is made beautiful mixed with
 The work needs to be dried for 4 or 5 days before you reheat it. When you mold & make a
 it on a brazier in the chamber of some persons at night , they will be neither able to move, nor speak,
 where the tooth is hurting, & within two or three hours they feel well because of it. Others put in the
 and tin vessel with them & they will keep six months . Candles They keep well in bran which makes them
 before exiting, & the its impetuosity is held constrained for longer in a small long piece than a gr short one.
 A cannon can fire 4xx or a hundred shots per day , but one needs to refresh it every time after
 placing them via trenches on the edge of the ditch by night . ◯ On each side of the opening of the
 weighs two hundred and fifty quintals. A form of regimen Every morning , take two or three eggs laid one or two
 morning, take two or three eggs laid one or two days ago. Heat them until & do not cook them. Take
 inserted into the some grenades, to be always provisioned. And every three days you shall change them if you recognize that they have
 to the place one wants to batter, the gunner goes at night to reconnoiter the most convenient place to mount the battery
 removed, it will surprise the assailed. One approaches fortified towns at night , but to poorly fortified towns, pioneers bring gabions and
 once loaded & kept in a dry place for fifteen days , they have more force. Culverin ball Bastarde ball Medium
 like, masks or garlands, which will be dry within one day . Next, you will apply them with strong glue or
 that it is clear, & grind it several times a day for fifteen days. Then pour off the water by tilting,
 clear, & grind it several times a day for fifteen days . Then pour off the water by tilting, and gather
 in the open air & in the serain for fifteen days with its water, and it will become matte, strong, white
 it would be worth nothing. And leave it thus for a long time , because the longer it stays there, the more beautiful
 straws, others of thirteen. And they work on them mainly in summer . And in winter, when they put it to use,
 thirteen. And they work on them mainly in summer. And in winter , when they put it to use, they sew it.
 but rather mixes in more. And, by holding it a long time in the fire, the filth is eaten away, which is
 make with it an opiate of which you will take once a week on a host soaked in wine. Then you will be
 For sowing melons well, it needs to be at the end of a moon cycle , for otherwise they would bud too many leaves &
 to restore it, it needs to be soaked for one night in urine, then boiled a little in it. Sapphire One
 in church windows, which are much thicker than those of today & are of more lively colors. If it is for
 makes beautiful violet. Beautiful artichokes One needs to prune them every year so that only one stalk is left, & water them
 is left, & water them thoroughly. L Also replant some every year , for the second year they will bear very beautiful
 thoroughly. L Also replant some every year, for the second year they will bear very beautiful fruit. Planting trees One says
 Planting trees One says that rarely a tree planted on St. Paul's day fails to take, & for covering the bark, cow dung
 so fertile that if one were to grow wheat there every year , it would lie flat for being too vigorous. This
 finely as for sowing cooking herbs. One commonly sows it on St. Anthony’s day in January . One makes eight harvests of it. The first ones
 sorrel, & with the root, which is yellow in the summer , they dye thread & similar things. Aquafortis Some put
 while melting. Mixed tin holds in the fire for a long time but the cendrée separates it. Aquafortis If your retort is
 its first blossom & it will bud & bloom only in the following year , & I believe bulbous herbs do this. Sand The
 black. Ducks Young domestic ones do not grow for a month after they are hatched, but remain in this state. But
 from bars that have been in the fire for a long time , & which is thick, is much better than that
 is to say castrate, when they are one or two years old, he must not have been with his wife for
 of sandarac, spike lavender oil, and a little mastic. And in the evening put it into a vessel, all pestled well together, without
 substance. Mericotons and pavis One should graft them en during Advent of Christmas provided that it does not freeze too much. White bronzing
 a pignatta sublimatorio di vetro, tenerlo sopra picciol fuoco una hora & una hora un poco piu forte & una hora
 di vetro, tenerlo sopra picciol fuoco una hora & una hora un poco piu forte & una hora bonissimo fuoco, et
 hora & una hora un poco piu forte & una hora bonissimo fuoco, et sarà fatto. Dapoi, per adoperarla, datte il
 brazilwood very finely, put it to soak one or two hours in clear water, then take this tinted water & add
 & apply it to paper, & if one or two hours later it does not die there, it is fine and
 it in a very long bath for three or 4 days . Then separate your decoction from the residue, of which
 which you will place in a bain marie for two days and your oil will turn white. If you rub the
 eggs, & the over the space of 4 or five mornings cook one of them, and, having mixed in it a
 together, applied. Go Flowers of trees Those that are seen with everyes new ☾ scarcely come to profit. One ought to leave only two
 the neck, wear root of peony which should be picked at the waning of the moon . Crucibles Those from Bayonne, which seem to be made
 with earth and pestled glass. Crucibles Those that are made in winter & humid weather are not good. Those of the founders
 pestled glass. Crucibles Those that are made in winter & humid weather are not good. Those of the founders must be thick
 their food. Having given it to them for one one week , give them another seven or eight days after. Excellent
 for one one week, give them another seven or eight days after. Excellent mustard Dry bread in an oven, then lard
 having been put back to melt often or for a long time , and they thicken and burn, in such a way
 much pleasure with their chanting, but they ought be taken before St. Michael , otherwise they scarcely live. A small impostume occurs on
 25 to 30 paces. Birds Those that can are taken at St. Michael are good for keeping, but those that are taken in
 are good for keeping, but those that are taken in March die, because they are starting to fall into love. Ortolans
 starting to fall into love. Ortolans are fed on oats all summer in order that they are nourished without becoming fat, to
 fatten them for selling, one gives them millet. They sing at night . One needs to c take them after mid-July until
 They sing at night. One needs to c take them after mid-July until St. Michael , for after that time when they have their young
 go away like turtledoves do. Siskins should also be taken from All Saints’ Day until Christmas , for after that they go to the mountains to
 the beak, one would say that they are. Keeping fruit for the entire year ℞ a glass ampul with an opening capable of receiving
 whatever fruit that you want. Put in some hot water for the space of two hours . And when your water is cooled, throw it out
 with your hand the fruit without it being corrupted & on a warm & dry day , return to the well-closed room, where neither wind nor
 Then put your bottles in a vat full of water, during the summer Et lhiver pourceque la cave s in a cellar, and
 Et lhiver pourceque la cave s in a cellar, and in the winter put your bottles into a basket furnished with some weights
 lower it to the bottom of a deep well. For in the winter the water of the vat would be too cold if
 with paper glued on the back. Small birds Ortolans sing at night if they are left in the serain, but they are
 to becoming blind, & their eyes become swollen at the beginning of August . Goldfinches like lettuce seeds very much, & often one
 with a spider, which one needs to give to it once a week in order that no gaillardisse comes to it. The calandra
 past, I have given leave to two of them, which after several days returned to their cage. For feeding young goldfinches, one needs
 worn ones print better, boil them for four or five good hours in a good lye quite spent in the wash water.
 boil walnut oil or, even better, linseed oil for a long time . & having boiled for a long time, you will
 oil for a long time. & having boiled for a long time , you will put in garlic & bread crusts to
 & of the capacity of one pitcher or earthen jug. Around the feast of St. John , put into it a dozen & a half chicken
 When this is the case you need to feed it at regular intervals, day & night , with the aid of two men, who by intervals
 want for such food (some say one egg yolk per hour , others three, but the thing itself will demonstrate the
 in this way it will achieve its growth in two months or seven weeks & will become like a snake, one
 it will achieve its growth in two months or seven weeks & will become like a snake, one empan & 4
 honey & vinegar. The term of the work is nine months from the feast of St. John until the 25th of
 & vinegar. The term of the work is nine months from the feast of St. John until the 25th of April . Linseed Whoever wants to have it beautiful & p
 4 levels of large shelves. Willingly they begin to molt around Holy Week . And to do this, one puts them in a
 and then arrange them on the shelves. And three times per day , one needs to exchange fresh leaves. And if during
 per day, one needs to exchange fresh leaves. And if during the day there is some thunder or rainy weather, cloud-covered & cool,
 when one draws it with hot water despuys. The worms, from their birth until u the their time when they make their cocoons & their prisons , sleep & rest 4 times, & each time remain
 rest 4 times, & each time remain 4 or five days resting without eating, as if they were dying to be
 begin by molting from the head then consequently, on different days , the s rest of the body, & from white
 scarcely profit after one has handled it with the hand. Around Pentecost , they begin to want to climb on the dry
 stayed inside living on its own sap il for three weeks , it comes out, diminished by half. For when it
 They have completed spinning & making their eggs in three weeks & around St. John’s Day. And at that time one
 completed spinning & making their eggs in three weeks & around St. John’s Day . And at that time one keeps their eggs &
 And at that time one keeps their eggs & seed until Holy Week , as on is said. Some spin among the leaves
 eno spets no a draob ro a ueirse purrits Take in the month of June & July , a number of the largest snails you can, with
 the whole well & put it under horsedung for the space of fifteen days . The snails will first live on the egg yolks,
 sun & in the serain for the space of fifteen days . Next you will break it from quite far away
 into the cauldron & leave it for two or three days . Then throw it afterward into the said muid and
 too penetrating & makes colors sparkle, unless it was made long ago . Painter The lake & florey rosette of Ghent &
 beautiful if it is burnished. It is dry in a quarter of an hour . Aloe would make brighter color still, but it takes
 takes long to dry & the other is dry in a quarter of an hour , in winter as well as summer. Good lake moistened
 the other is dry in a quarter of an hour, in winter as well as summer. Good lake moistened with saliva is
 a quarter of an hour, in winter as well as summer . Good lake moistened with saliva is promptly rendered dark.
 decorate them & are light and portable & last a long time . That which is imprinted on a relief is done
 lead white because the ceruse turns yellow. 4 or 5 year -old walnut oil which is clear is the best color,
 where the ceruse enters will yellow in five or six months , but lead white does not change. Florence lake is
 lake & with asphaltum, which would not dry for a very long time without this. Spike lavender oil is commonly put with lead
 are the most desiccative, nevertheless they need a good two days . If you want to prove whether an oil is
 with it, & if it produces a crust in a day soon it means that it will dessicate. Double layers Azures,
 & the color will take there. Varnish dry in an hour Take white turpentine oil & turpentine & mastic, pulverized &
 one is excellent for panels and is dry within an hour and does not stick like the turpentine one. Cleaning panels
 Also, painters, sometimes envious of the work undertaken by another, in the evening secretly pour a few drops of spike lavender on the
 especially for lake & for whites. Perspectives Perspectives in oil take a long time because of several lines that need to be done with
 allow apprentices to do this. When the imprimatura has been long done, it becomes greasy. One needs to rub it with
 body with ceruse & brazilwood dye. Flanders blue In the month of May , one puts the cow dung to putrefy under horse
 work is fresh, for if you were to wait until the next day , it would be dry & you would not be
 should work with white & black for two or three years to become an artist. Lead white It does not die
 yellow ochre, in order that the composition resembles gold. Gild the day after un jo it is laid down if you in the
 in the make the seat for the color in the evening . After having gilded, let it dry & rest one
 evening. After having gilded, let it dry & rest one day , next rub the gilding with a feather & cotton
 render it desiccative. The varnish will be dry in an hour . It will increase the color of gold. And this
 But it must be well dried for eight or ten days . Gold color that is made of different colors cleaned
 from paintbrushes for oil is not so good, & with time , tarnishes the gold because of the verdigris. One must
 gild with or mat after with having gilded. But wait one day or one night , But take heed not to and when it is
 grip, it is a sign that in ten or twelve hours it will be dry & appropriate for gilding. * To
 rain, & besides, & is made sooner. Burnished gold cracks over time & comes off in the rain. For preventing teats from
 apply them & they & do this 3 times a day & continue 4 or 5 days. Next, make a plaster
 this 3 times a day & continue 4 or 5 days . Next, make a plaster with Venice turpentine or better,
 give it to the pigeons. Against bruising of the eyes At night , apply very thin sheets of lead. Singular remedy. Paintbrushes
 Turpentine varnish made with this oil is dry in one hour . Fanciful tables You can make various grooved compartments &
 qu that seem to be made of arene, you see, after rainy weather , certain small patches like dust attached to the said
 new wine which they cannot have because, owing to the long sea crossing , the wine has lost its sweetness and is clarified
 fingers of water over it, and let it soak one day . Take the water where the said lime has soaked,
 put your pot into the said oven for the whole day . For bronzing white Take looking-glass tin & put it
 some time after into a leaded pot, onto the fire for the space of twenty-four hours . You will have good vermilion. For making varnish Take
 fire, so that it boils for the space of five hours . You will take half an ounce of flour glue,
 it boil while stirring continuously, for the space of five hours . And then you will put d’araucq rock alum, two
 for horn, as the case may be, four or five days , & then boil it where it has soaked for
 it where it has soaked for the space of one hour , & take it out of the oil, and take
 then put the pot in a dung heap for fifteen days , and once it is out, you will boil your
 you will boil your substances for the space of three hours . For making wood red Take one quart of old
 other damp place for the space of eight or ten days . Then when you want to use it, one needs
 of white wine, and boil the substances the space of half an hour , & put down your colors on your iron or
 the face Make a small lead cap & wear it overnight . Excellent secret. Try a lead mask. Medicine of the
 mask. Medicine of the orientals against all maladies Dry rosemary in the month of May , then fill this bowl with powder of it, and
 dry in the shade, little by little & for a long time , and mold with it very neatly. But it must
 let it rest for the space of one & half days , & then take the said water & put it
 warm horse dung for the space of eight or nine days . For making bronze in the color of steel Take
 with strong vinegar, then soak your bone or horn an hour , & then put it to use. For making bronze
 it has all gone through. Then wash your y eyes at any hour you wish & with the help of God, you will
 it is cooked, & it needs to be for six hours , mind that the fumes do not harm you for
 & let it dry. Antidote against the fumes of metals In the morning , take a piece of toast with butter, & neither
 it & soak it several times & change the water every day , so that it does not smell bad, & when
 distribution of the teeth as fine as they please. Clockmakers In the past , they tempered their springs by dipping them into molten
 tempered their springs by dipping them into molten lead. But today they temper their springs straight, & bend them once tempered,
 believe that reheating it at the mouth of the oven, after the bread has been taken out , would be very proper. One ought not to complain
 Try to moisten it with tartar oil. Flour Ground during Advent , keeps for the whole year. Sand from a mine
 with tartar oil. Flour Ground during Advent, keeps for the whole year . Sand from a mine in Thoulouse The sand from
 for sand & moisten it, & in three or 4 days it will be green. Next, oil them & keep them
 & molded very neatly. I let it sit an entire night . The next morning, I reheated it little by little,
 very neatly. I let it sit an entire night. The next morning , I reheated it little by little, over the course
 little by little, over the course of seven or eight hours (for if possible, no humidity ought to remain in the
 brittle. Some of the founders have this superstition, that only three days a week are good for melting, namely Tuesdays, Wednesdays Thursdays, and Saturdays.
 only three days a week are good for melting, namely Tuesdays , Wednesdays Thursdays, and Saturdays. The others, for them, are
 three days a week are good for melting, namely Tuesdays, Wednesdays Thursdays, and Saturdays. The others, for them, are unlucky. When
 days a week are good for melting, namely Tuesdays, Wednesdays Thursdays , and Saturdays. The others, for them, are unlucky. When
 week are good for melting, namely Tuesdays, Wednesdays Thursdays, and Saturdays . The others, for them, are unlucky. When you mold,
 it in wine, or better yet vinegar, and keep it all year long in a barrel. Sand of the mine of Thoulouse Casting
 other. To mold well, after having prepared your sands, mold in a day . Slowly reheat them the next day, then cast them
 prepared your sands, mold in a day. Slowly reheat them the next day , then cast them on another. One ought to choose
 put them on a marble in a cellar. In one night , they had been moistened enough by themselves without dampening
 in a wet napkin, which is previously made in the serain of the night or in the moisture of the cellar. And I have
 suffices to moisten it in a cave or in the serain or, to be done more quickly, in a piece of
 moisten it in a damp place for two or three days , & so that when you take fistfuls, it holds
 it dry by itself, without fire, for one or two days . Although, if you are in a hurry, you can
 neatly things in low relief without being moistened in the serain , or in the cellar, or otherwise with the napkin,
 make them roll spoil the pathways of the gardens. And every two years , they do not forget to open the sides of
 just as I tried, by boiling it one or two hours in a rather large iron pot, putting in, for an
 A long time to cool. Olives They are spoiled if once a month one does not refresh their salt water, which one ought
 them spoil. Observation from rustics That when it freezes on Palm Sunday , it freezes all the months of the year. That
 rustics That when it freezes on Palm Sunday, it freezes all the months of the year . That when the first flowers fall les suiv &
 is too hard, one soaks it for one or two hours in not quite lukewarm aquafortis, for if it were too
 can be taken. A workman can easily make vi a day . If they are too thick, one thins them a
 charcoal, & thus one heats them quite strongly for an hour or two, and when the ashes are very hot, one
 would prevent the color from taking. One needs almost one day for preparing, softening & setting the color of water, but
 ought not to burnish gold. Mastic varnish dry in a half hour Some take 2 ℥ of mastic, a half ℥ of
 they layer their paintings very thick, & they are a long time drying on the inside, though on top they make a
 a little, & having remained there for seven or eight pauses , they take it out and shake it, hitting the
 tinning done in leaf, thus at the end of a year , they can be clarified & renewed by heating &
 firkin that one fills with brine. Then, one serves them all year among salads, raw with oil & vinegar, for being thus
 mixed ones. One ought to reheat for one or two hours et p, in thata charcoal fire which lights by itself,
 to die. It will be dry soon. However, if the weather is not serain & dry , do not soften it, for if the weather is
 serain & dry, do not soften it, for if the weather is damp & humid , it would turn black. Portraying from nature One needs
 making & increasing the fire. They are made in an hour & a half . A gros of salt on the four ℥ of
 & full of charcoal, and maintain it thus for one day . The first experience that I made of it, it
 the topaz are of the same heat, & for an hour & a half on the fire, for they could burn. The ruby en
 a great fire. The ruby wants fire for a whole day , and if it does not have enough fire, it
 one of gold or silver. Infusion of anthos or rosemary In the month of August , the flower is better cooked & more suitable for
 leave to wilt in there in the shade for a day . Then put in it the first substance of wine,
 of wine, & leave it to rest three or four days , and next express the whole into another vessel, &
 new flowers. Next, leave the last infusion in the sun for a month . Next, distil it through an alembic. Ne And take
 put in new one, & wash & stir the composition for the time it takes you to say 8 paternoster , and the 3rd time for as long as 7,
 & white ointment, with which you shall anoint the burn for the space of 9 days . But do not apply it any longer than this,
 your flesh to grow excessively. You b shall bandage yourself twice a day , & each time you shall wash your face with
 bottle, & if you want to keep it for a long time , add some salt to it; & of this, mix
 into aquafortis in a matrass, and let it rest two hours without putting it on the fire. Put in the very
 it to temper in white wine for one or two hours , then scratch it & leave the part you want
 drink on an empty stomach, having kept them locked up at night without eating. Approved. For casting If you have some piece
 that the tree that you want to graft has made in that year , & there cut a branch on which you see
 nothing uncovered but the leaf, which in three or 4 days will give you an indication whether the shield should take,
 it will be green. Leave your graft seven or eight days thus, then unbind it & join it well to the
 the back is intact. This type of grafting is practiced from mid-May , so that the trees have already budded & made
 that the trees have already budded & made new issue, until the beginning of August , and so that the trees are in sap. Almond
 pitted fruit, which are the best there, they are grafted in the month of January . Generally trees with pitted fruit, like mericoton peaches, are
 cage with canvas. One needs to feed it the first day , giving it taking it out from its cage into
 nature, the food that they like the best, & the season of their pleasure . The nightingale, as long as it sings, maintains a
 will enter. Some sell nightingales on trees. The coolness of the evening and the morning , near fountains & shaded places, are more appropriate for
 you want to mold should not be kept for a long time , for if they are alive, they get thin, and
 until they have been quite red for one or two hours , & pestle them & pass them finely through a
 ga, as is said here, keeps well one or two months , well pressed, in a dry place, if it is
 well pressed, in a dry place, if it is not rainy weather . But when fresh, it is excellent for exquisite work.
 must be set ablaze in a glassmaker’s fournaise for four days . Molds can only be used once because for delicate
 à vent with fusion fire, so that the sand remains long enough crucible remains red for a quarter of an hour. This
 the sand remains long enough crucible remains red for a quarter of an hour . This is done more to cleanse it than for
 are very great. It abstains from eating seven or eight days , once it has devoured some frog. It can swallow
 It can keep a frog engulfed for two to three hours & renders it up completely alive. Toad If by chance
 thin. One ought to put it to death only a quarter of an hour before you want to mold. When it has eaten something,
 no better remedy than to promptly cut off his head. In the spring , as they have changed skin, they are more beautiful.
 more beautiful. The small lizards that one takes in the summer , the size of small female lizards, grey on the
 if you want to store them or keep them a long time , give them live frogs & not dead ones to
 it therein until it is dead, which will be in an hour or a half . But if you are in a hurry To know
 carefully done fai, let it set, which will take a quarter of an hour . Then, release the clay circle, which can be used
 done, dip le rev your mold your mold, for the length of a paternoster in water, not du the uncovered side but opposite, &
 follows the more delicate parts. So, leave it for a quarter of an hour to set, then remove the circle & the clay cake.
 However, the best would be to mold in the same day the 4 or 5 molds that you can do, because
 do, because these corrupt animals in themselves stink within one day . Having left your molds one or two es days
 one day. Having left your molds one or two es days to dry, for they stay damp for a good month,
 days to dry, for they stay damp for a good month , make the vents on one half. + Note that
 second cast, were you to leave your mold for one day or a night without opening it, you would need to
 you to leave your mold for one day or a night without opening it, you would need to then dip it
 |-| If your snake has been without eating for a long time , it happens that, when you want to put it
 leave the charcoals thus to kindle by themselves for a half hour , so that they heat little by little and not
 with ciment real. Molding snakes in all weather aulcu Because in the winter they hide in the earth, some feed them des in
 with earth & covered with manure. Others make several molds in summer , because with one snake, you can make four or
 had previously been in the glassmaker’s fornaise, three or four days and three days and three nights, in a flat box
 in the glassmaker’s fornaise, three or four days and three days and three nights, in a flat box where it should
 fornaise, three or four days and three days and three nights , in a flat box where it should not be
 not at all in gold. It has not been forty years that one knows this in Germany. Sublimate is commonly employed
 made with a drawer underneath, to refresh its fresh earth everyday , for it takes much delight in this, & mix
 keep it in its strength, one needs to, for the first day , take uyit in the hand & open its beak
 growing leaner, until it has gotten over its fancy. The next day you will give him And you will feed it in
 feed it in this way three or four times a day & will also make it drink. The next morning, you
 times a day & will also make it drink. The next morning , you will give it in its cage some well-minced
 hard-boiled egg, and change it two or three times a day , for it will not eat it if it is
 it is not fresh. And if it goes half a day without eating, one needs to feed it as before &
 tallow and arsenic Keeping dry flowers in the same state all year This is a rare secret, & which gives pleasure for
 & which gives pleasure for adorning tables, rooms & cabinets out of season, when winter denies flowers . Take heed, therefore, to ce pick them when they
 growing. For if you were to take them when their season is past or when they are starting to wilt, they
 box can contain. That being thus arranged, expose it for several days to hot sun. And while the flower dries, the sand,
 so thin. Next, dry it well in the sun for several days to remove all humidity from it, and ventilate it like
 you know. Pansies are kept thus. For keeping fruits all year One needs to pick them in serain & s quite
 & the fumes of it are dangerous. If within 12 hours it is not melted and mixed, it will not be
 grain is like broken steel. Your lute being dry, put, in the early morning , your crucible in a four à vent, & at
 the full vigor of the fire your substances for 12 hours or a natural day. Make each time a good quantity
 of the fire your substances for 12 hours or a natural day . Make each time a good quantity of this substance,
 hurt you. And before working at it, take in the morning good buttered toast, and hold the said butter, or zedoary,
 obscure it. This aforesaid composition will suffice you for a long time , when it has been for a whole day on
 suffice you for a long time, when it has been for a whole day on a gentle gentle fire at the beginning & invigorated
 quite firm & hard after having set, but its takes longer to do so. One needs to know the nature of
 hole in the earth, & place your ear fully there, at night or at a silent time , & you will easily hear the noise. And hot
 However, try well-clarified sugar. One needs to soak for one night or one day the plaster mold before casting the sugar,
 sugar. One needs to soak for one night or one day the plaster mold before casting the sugar, in order that
 Take heed, therefore, to make your molds in the natural season of que all things. The grapes that are usually wanted
 + One needs for the mold to have soaked one day and one night in cold water for, and to be
 for the mold to have soaked one day and one night in cold water for, and to be humid, when you
 scales, loops of iron, emery & things that withstand several days of great firing. Animal bones are not so difficult to
 color with a not-too-thick gum or because oil takes a long time to dry and runs if it is layered thinly, as
 from the caper plant. Animals dried in the oven for a long time Plant them on a slab of earth, arranging them with
 one takes out the bread. And it should stay there a day & a night in order that it is chau dry, for otherwise it
 harsh, but rather like the heat of the sun in June , otherwise the animals cook. Once dry, do not wet
 one. In thick things, if which keep their heat a long time , if there is little tin, it makes it porous.
 very good vinegar & left it therea two or three days , stirring it several times each day. Finally, I boiled
 therea two or three days, stirring it several times each day . Finally, I boiled it & reddened in the pot
 growing again after having been cut, or when they rebud in autumn , because the new leaves are more lumpy & have
 & reheated as for previous sands, you should make it well in advance , for it serves several times. But before you use
 several times. But before you use it, soak it for a good hour in cold water & for at least as long in
 it for a good hour in cold water & for at least as long in water so hot, that, at the beginning, you cannot
 well managed. But it is good to soak it one night or one day before casting in it, in order that
 it is good to soak it one night or one day before casting in it, in order that it be well
 as with all other animals. They keep themselves, in the winter , with their eyes closed & are as dead, being
 are dead because they are still too stiff. But on the follwing day , you will manipulate them & fold their legs as
 When they are better mortified & rested two or three days , they bend and are handled better. animal eyes of
 skillets becomes red from casting, especially when it stays a long time in the fire, m because the calamine exhales itself. But
 fashion, to make a mold well, one really needs three days . Take heed in hollow & fanciful molds to have
 make it reheat until it is very red. Or leave overnight in a good fire until the morning. It will be
 red. Or leave overnight in a good fire until the morning . It will be very soft for engraving on it
 because a thick mass of mostly lead remains hot a long time & eats the mold. You can, after the cast is
 pull the earth of the core, leaving it wet a long time ; When you have cast your black wax in the
 & lizards), let them rest remain dead one or two days to have them more handleable. For they stay rigid after
 than in a small one, for the large one remains long in the fire & the small one is soon reheated.
 the petals, make your work soak in water for a long time in order that, shaking it in the water, the earth
 themselves in the room. But it is necessary that the night be dark & without ☾. Catching birds In winter, when
 that the night be dark & without ☾. Catching birds In winter , when the birds have molted, skin them & fill
 & catch many. in an oven that is scarcely hot In winter . ilAnd in summer this is done because, before they
 in an oven that is scarcely hot In winter. ilAnd in summer this is done because, before they would be dried, the
 the fly would get into their eyes and make worms. In winter they are prepared better & dry by themselves. Preparation of
 one prepares to gild with burnished gold, five or six days , until it is not at all lumpy. # nota
 a reverberatory furnace, where they should be be quite red, a good space of time . Once they are reheated in this way, pulverize them
 washed it in good vinegar for the space of a day . And it will be well burnt p & clean,
 from Assyria, which they usually sold out of within 6 days . Navigation, trade Herodotus, on the first page of Clio,
 among the first, & thus are caught by the ch frost , one lays them bare at the roots during winter
 the ch frost, one lays them bare at the roots during winter in order that the winter the cold slows them and
 them bare at the roots during winter in order that the winter the cold slows them and that, leblossoming later, the flowers
 trees In Spain, one lays them bare at the roots during winter , & in summer one plants them well with earth.
 one lays them bare at the roots during winter, & in summer one plants them well with earth. Bittern foot To mold
 something flat & leave it thus to dry a few days , because, in drying, the scales appear coarser & the
 smoke from inside. Do not place them to reheat at different times, but continue once you have started . And do not place them to cool in the
 of fatty plaster ought not to be kept for a long time , for they act like fatty earth, which when drying
 they are made, & to cast. Good plaster keeps a long time in molds. It needs to be well oiled, for it
 it is necessary to let the glue dry for one day without touching it. Stance of animals Not only with iron
 you killed the others, and they will keep for a long time without spoiling. If you have a cut on your hand,
 it. Molds Once molded, do not keep them for a long time , but rather use them u as soon as you
 u as soon as you can, because when kept a long time , they are subject to corrupting. When they are reheated,
 prius, & that one holds that all arts were invented in the space of a thousand years , so that you do not think that you are
 rather rediscover anew the books of Numa, buried par & long unknown & forgotten, in order to publish them for those
 those who do not know them; so that as the preceding day is teacher for the subsequent, thus you needed to learn
 so that as the preceding day is teacher for the subsequent , thus you needed to learn from those who preceded
 the subsequent, thus you needed to learn from those who preceded you in order to teach to those who come after.
 the paint covers everything. Original first page (1578–1579) In the year fifteen hundred seventy-eight, the second of July, the heirs of
 (1578–1579) In the year fifteen hundred seventy-eight, the second of July , the heirs of thee late Sieur Ouvryer received two
 have also received, as part of the revenue of the year fifteen hundred seventy nine, two three hundred forty three and
