Painter

The lake &amp; florey rosette of

Ghent &amp; others lose their color &amp; die in the

air.

All marble on which a knife can prick is

worth nothing for grinding fine colors.

Chalk has no body in oil. Ceruse is

appropriate. But lead white more excellent. Ceruse is the

whitest, when ground first in water, the lead white

grayish. But the white it takes on its perfect whiteness in

oil.

When you grind your colors, first clean your workshop

well, for when walking, if you stir up dust, this will damage your

colors, which will never be beautiful if they are not very

be clean.

Florey must not be mixed with azur d’esmail

or another, for it makes it green.

For palettes to paint, ivory is excellent, knots

of the fir tree, the pear tree, &amp; if it

is a walnut tree, make sure the grain of the wood

runs lengthwise.

L One always needs to apply imprimatura

don wood to paint there in oil in

order to fill the holes &amp; unevenness, and make imprimatura with some stil de

grain yellow &amp; ceruse tempered in oil, then soften

with a feather, which flattens better than a

paintbrush. Or when the imprimatura is dry, scrape strongly

with a knife.

To use azur d’esmail in oil, one needs to

choose the most delicate. And to render it subtle, one ought not to grind it,

for this makes it whiten. But one needs to wash it, &amp; the coarsest

going to the bottom, choose the one that is above in the

water or, by inclination, pour out the cloudy water, then

gather the azure.

    The one who makes a profession of working in

oil will hardly work well in distemper if he has not

been trained well from adolescence. For the way of working is different,

because when washing the paintbrush for distemper,

one always leaves it humid. And on the contrary, when one cleans the

paintbrush in oil to soften, one wipes the

paintbrush well. Otherwise, the work would run &amp;

would soon be all disfigured.

The Italians soften by hatching with a large flattened

paintbrush which makes serrations.

And they do not lay their shadow all at once like the Flemish,

but make them hatching lightest toward the light then a little darker

next &amp; finally a little blacker to better make project &amp; come

out.

In distemper do not mix your different colors together

But, for this makes them die, but use each separately. And in

order that they do not dry &amp; that you have time to soften, moisten

the back of the canvas.

Lake takes long to dry in oil and for that reason one must

grind some glass with it. But one needs to choose cristallin

because it is cleaner. And because it would be too difficult to grind by

itself, one must redden it on the fire, then when entirely red throw it

into cold water, &amp; it will crumble &amp; pulverize

easily for grinding it afterward. Being well ground it with a lot of

water, it resembles ground lead white, but for all this it has

no body. I think it would be good for casting.

Lead white is made with plate lead, beaten thin &amp; put

under the dung heap.

White varnish of turpentine or of spike lavender

oil and turpentine is colored with pulverized

terra emerita, making it boil together. It gives a gold

color on silver and more beautiful if it is burnished. It is dry

in a quarter of an hour. Aloe would make brighter

color still, but it takes long to dry &amp; the other is dry in a quarter

of an hour, in winter as well as

summer.

Good lake moistened with saliva is promptly rendered dark.

That from Florence is too gummed.

If you make a layer of printers’ ink on velvet

and there apply gold leaf and then stretch the velvet, it

will appear grainy as if there were gold powder disseminated on

it.

Vermilion ground by itself is wan and pale, but ground after

lake, it is more beautiful.

For ridding marbles of grease, one grinds

common ashes on it, which is good afterward to make the first

imprimatura of a panel that is prepared in oil in order to seal

the cracks &amp; chinks of the wood. It has more body than

chalk &amp; it has chalk a certain fattiness.

One mixes it with the said chalk or ra

with the colors collected from the vessel where one cleans the

paintbrush. It is desiccative and spares the color.

On Once this first imprimatura is made on the wood, one

scrapes with a knife to even it. Next, one makes there a second imprimatura

of ceruse or of the meanest colors mixed together. In

a painting in oil on canvas, one applies only

one imprimatura, and the same ashes can be used there. Also, after one

has ground a color, one grinds some pith of coarse bread on it to

rid the marble of grease.