Sand

You should not choose for casting the one that is in any way so lean
&amp; arid that it does not have bond, like the one from the
sea or desei from sandy
paths dried out by the sun. But choose
them or in t in the first place from
quarreriesries or rock caves,
because that one is best, provided that it is very fine. You will recognize the
vein of it if, among the greyish rocks or quarries
qu that seem to be made of arene,
you see, after rainy weather, certain small
patches like dust attached to the said rocks, or if due to the
humidity, a small piece of it flakes off, which easily crushes between your 
hands. You will also find in lean soils some which comes
off in lop large lumps like stones of
tuf et ne, or among terres
bolvenes, which are much better than those in
fatty &amp; strong earths. And one ought not to take it from the
surface, for fear that it be mixed with common earth, but three
or 4 feet below &amp; the closest to the
tuf or stone. Since it comes out in large lumps one would say that it starts to take shape as a stone. But when it is wet, it
comes apart easily. One needs to make sure that when breaking it up it
is quite granular, &amp; that when cushed between the
fingers, it renders itself into very great subtlety, like 
impalpable, keeping nevertheless its sandy asperity, without muddying the
fingers like clay. It is dried slightly on the
 fire, then it is pestled &amp; passed finely through a double
sieve or a linen sleeve, then is moistened with
wine or magistra &amp;c / Verte



The Toulouse molder reheats it strongly then grinds
it finely on marble and passes it through a
linen &amp; moistens pass it with
wine. He makes the cast very broad &amp; ne
flat &amp; barely deep. He casts pure latton used for trebuschets
&amp; similar thin things. He casts very hot.



Try calcined vitriol.








The sand near my area is very excellent. But one ought
to, in order to make an excellent work, take it fresh, which has been hardly
put to work. For it dries out after having been cast several times &amp; is
lean &amp; has no body. If you cast some fine work which has hardly any
thickness, it is necessary that your substance of copper be very
hot so that it penetrates &amp; runs. Some mix lead in this
melt, but it is for large works &amp; not for small ones.

Sand from oxen feet, burned twice &amp; finely ground,
melts more neatly with copper than sand that I have seen,
&amp; without crust. I have cast a high relief medal with it, and
f with a thickness as delicate as a knife
blade or a card. And it was hollow on one side, opposite the
relief, which was on other side.

It is necessary that lean sands be more moistened than
others, namely with magistra or good pure wine or
boiled wine with elm tree roots &amp; similar things.
But very fine sands, like burned linen, which is fatty &amp;
soft on its own, want to be applied dry.

All moistened sand wants to be strongly beaten &amp; stirred, to
be ground finely &amp; to flatten out the clods that it makes in itself
when it is bathed.

The olive oil that some mix in with beaten egg
glair makes it become porous.

Sand of calcined glass withstands several fusions, but there
is nothing like the first ones. It also becomes porous.

Latten comes out well on its own, but it runs too quickly. It is
good to mix it with a little copper, like a quarter
part, with the substance of skillets.

Founders do cast frames up to 30 or 40 lb,
but not more.



It is good for big work, but for small ones it is troublesome for
releasing Il because it crumbles. It is good that
it be alloyed with some fatty thing which has bond such as molded
tripoli or ab burned felt or sal
ammoniac or tripoli &amp; similar things.








When you have molded, it is good to reheat your mold on the fumes of
the substance you are melting, because the cast is imprinted with the quality
eof the metal, which afterward runs more easily in something that comes from it.

 Human bones are the best for casting once
calcined.

To cast neatly, it is necessary that your substance be quite hot
&amp; to achieve this, when your substance is melted, throw in some
iron scales, either in powder or otherwise E, for
it heats copper a lot &amp; cleanses it of its grease. At the
end, when you want to cast, add some saltpeter, by folding your
additions in a paper in order that everyone may not know what you
mix in.

Sheep foot bones are even better than those of oxen
foot.

Oil &amp; tallow make it very porous, &amp;
    pestled glass, &amp; copper alone.

Cendrée earth molds very neatly.

Ash does not have enough body to withstand
copper.

It is better not to mix the sands, but to fill the frame with
one only.

Latten is always fatty, &amp; does not mold neatly. One finds
that it comes out better alloyed with a quarter of
copper, but let it be cast very hot.

    Copper comes out well with a bit of metal. If you mix
in metal within latten, it will be more brittle &amp; more
troublesome.

Slightly coarser sand has more body.

Sand from corp rock is always better,
which seems like tuf in lumps, which has a beautiful
&amp; very fine grain, &amp; a little fatty. One pestles it, then one
dries it in a skillet on the fire, until it is no longer
smokes, then one passes it through a fine &amp; double sieve,
&amp; one molds with it.



Copper or latten cannot come out well if the medal does
not sufficient thickness, &amp; if it does not have it, give it some
with wax.



Some cast through a hole made in the middle of the reverse side of the
medal.



Some, wanting to cast large works in latten, y
mix in the sand some pestled glass to give the earth
bond. But it makes it porous, and the work needs to be repaired.



One puts in lead for a large work to make it run, but not
not
for in a small one because it would leave filth all around
the work.








Copper is bett and latten are proper to
cast &amp; at the right heat when they throw off, while stirring them in the
crucible, a very white flame &amp; that the bath is very
liquid.

Some cast in well ground ceruse pour
le, others in flour moistened several times with
oil &amp; g &amp; dried in the
sun.

Others, for casting in lead, old
printers' type or the composition thereof.

Others put into the tin or lead a substance of
fixed quicksilver which makes it run.