Founding

The putty is made of burnt earth which has

served in the founding; this is earth bourre bolvene,

in  which one has founded. One grinds it on a big

stone, &amp; with this one makes the

cope of first coat of the cope of

bells, where there are letters &amp; works, &amp; le

only needs to be reheated in the flame of straw, and molds very

neatly.

The earth which molds en noyau is subject to making

it porous, if you do not rub well with a brush or your

finger the piece to be molded, which should be well

oiled. And do it coat by coat, &amp; not all at once.

Earth or sand moistened or ground with water wants

to be reheated more than sand.

Latten from a candlestick is not pure, for one mixes in it

iron filings &amp; potin.

Latten wants to be cast hotter than copper, quod

non credo.

To cast carefully, one ought not to take metals already

alloyed, but take them pure &amp; mix them.

Iron hardly agrees with being cast in a mixture of

copper or latten.

It is better to mold all with one sand, be it in a frame or

noyau, rather than in various mixed ones.

One ought to reheat for one or two hours and 

p, in a fire that of charcoal which

lights by itself, a crucible with the substance inside, and

then blow &amp; cover the crucible with large charcoals

&amp; the mouth of the furnace with bricks, and

let it consume two or three feedings of charcoal, which

se fill the furnace above the

crucible. At the end, stoke it to a violent fire, &amp; when the

flame is very white &amp; the substance is in a liquid

bath like water &amp; casting off pale blue flames,

cast. The secret is to cast very hot &amp; in one go.

 

Lean white sand without bond renders quite 

proper for casting, &amp;, having body, if

you grind it very finely on porphyry or calcine it,

reddening it several times in the fire, &amp; spread it in

vinegar or finely grind it with water, as you know. It

also molds very neatly en noyau, as I have experimented. But do

not moisten it with salt water if you want to promptly reheat it,

for salt boils on the fire &amp; makes pustules, being pressed by

the fire. I believe that the noyaulx, gently reheated, would not

do this. I molded very neatly en noyau the substance of

skillets. White sand smells like sulfur when

reheated, and I believe it would melt. And since the substance has been

cast in it, it acquires in the mold

as a luster as if it were

leaded or vitrified. I believe that glassmakers could

use it.

One needs very little sal ammoniac dissolved in

water.