Furbisher

The parts of a sword are the rivet,

the tail of the sword, what comes next is the ricasso, the rest is

the c blade. The sides are the edge

&amp; the point. Some blades have a sharp ridger,

which has one single elevated ridge in the middle &amp; along the whole

length, and are easy to break. The other

blades are called of three edges or three slopes, which do have

a rise in the middle, but it is flat as if it were a sharp ridge, but

flattened, and s these

ones are the safest. The others are are called fluted, which

are notched in the middle, &amp; when it is

along the whole length, they are just as easy to break as those with

sharp ridges &amp; are more troublesome to furbish because the

fustée cannot get in. But one makes one in particular which is

narrow.

Of the guard of the sword are the

pommel, the branches of the guard &amp; the

pontet, which is this

iron strip which closes off the branch which is at the end of the

ricasso to stop thrusts from sliding into the guard. The

rings are these two branches in

half-round which start from the eye of the

guard up to the branch of the pontet. The branch that crosses

the guard is called the body. And this

quillon block, by which the sword

tail enters and to which all the branches

return &amp; are held, is called the eye of the guard.

Then follows the wood of the grip, which one glues, or

according to the most competent, with gummed wax, which is of

wax &amp; pitch, because rosin would be too hard.

They heat it lightly, then rub the wood of the grip with it in

order that the tang or the thread takes hold there. Otherwise, if a

thread were to come loose, it would all d

break immediately. On iron wire or dog

skin, one also puts glue on

it. The garnishment of which is put on the wood

of, which is of silk or thread, is called the

cord, which is made from two tro or three

threads turned twisted on the spinning wheel,

or 4 if the silk is thin. The slightly thicker cord holds better.

The binding, which is also made of silk at both ends of the

handle, are called the

buttons.

Some grips are made of silk, dogfish

skin, annealed iron wire,

threads of gold &amp; of fine &amp; false silver &amp; of

velvet. Iron wire has a lower price &amp; is the most

durable. Next is the grip of silk, if one does not have the

convenience of being close to the sea to procure some

dog skin, which is quite

convenient. Pou The beautiful skin costs fifty or lx

sous &amp; 4 or five dozen grips are

made from it. This kind gives a good grip even if the hand is

sweating. To work it, if it is too hard, one soaks it for one

or two hours in not quite lukewarm

aquafortis, for if it were too hot, it would cook &amp; spoil the

skin. It is sewn with black thread.

    

The gold grips are made by putting underneath thin yellow

canvas or a different canvas yellowed with chalk. And this

canvas is set with glue or the aforesaid gum, this

is in order that the thread holds better on it. These are made of

cords like the silk ones, &amp; between two cords one sets one or

two threads to make it show up better. The silver kind is

made similarly, and there is not as much trouble as with silk,

and even less because it takes more to twist silk, because one

needs to twist it twice. A grip of fine gold is worth 18 or 20

sous.

The best sword point is the sage leaf form.

scabbard bench

    

This long plank on which the sword is attached &amp; laid down to

furbish it is called the

chameau, it is

commonly of rowan, which is

hard &amp; even.

The lower stick, which is folded like a bow, is called the

arson.

The upper is called the stick of the

fustée.

And this small square piece, which is put

l on the sword to burnish it, is called the

fustée.

There are two horns: one is called the oil horn and

the other the emery horn.

There is an iron which is made like a halberd point,

square, &amp; of very even steel, &amp; well filed,

which is called the

grateau, which

serves to to smooth the traces of the

file on sword guards &amp; to give an edge to swords after they

have been ground, which is better than with a stone or a

sharpening stone, which quite often makes scratches.

    

    a

    b   

        

        

    

        

            c

            the flin or thunder

                stone

    

D

the baston

a felinder

       

To make coupp swords cut better, one gives them

the edge by pulling upward from the point.

        

Those who create sword guards are artisans

separate from the furbisher.

        

 A is the

bruisson

            

B is the bloodstone

        

The fustée is a square piece of wood

three fingers in thickness, of

boxwood, which is fitted in the middle of the stick

of the fustée to furbish.

        

The fresil stick is of willow

wood, which is to clean the rust off weapons with

fresil, which is the iron scale falling

at the farriers’ forge.

        

The furbisher buys his blades by the dozen, which

are not fully drawn by the tang because he does this himself to adjust

them well to the l pommel &amp; guards.

Spanish ones are deemed better for being of better steel

&amp; iron, but they are not as well-forged as swords from

Vienne in pro Dauphiné. The

Spanish ones are not as well ground coming from the

forge, because they grind them with the

foot, &amp; this is what

makes them wavy.

Blades from Vienne commonly cost xviii or 19

lb a dozen.

The first thing the furbisher does when he gets his new

blades is to draw out their tang, which he does himself or has done by

locksmiths or farriers, giving him some

liard for his charcoal. Next, they

pass it over a grindstone to make it

cut, then lay it down on the

chameau, and with some pulverized

emery, fine &amp; soft as flour, &amp; mixed with oil

to make it hold, they furbish the sword with the stick used to

remove the traces of the grindstone, and then the

clean the sword powell with the

emery and give it a drop or two of oil, which

they spread with the finger to give it luster. Having

put the oil, they furbish the sword again on the

chameau with the

felin, which is a

thunderstone mounted in the middle of a stick like the

fustée, and this stick is called the baton à

felinder. Next, having passed it on the

felin, they furbish it with chalk &amp;

the oil which is on the sword. Next, they wipe it &amp; go over

it again, &amp; furbish with dry chalk. And at the end, when they

are ready mounted, one gives them the edge with the

gratteau.

Ai

Once furbished, one mounts it on the guards which one presents to

know if they are quite suitable. And taking hold of a blade such that

the whole ricasso is held in the hand, one conjectures

that it will be just as heavy once mounted.

One puts the blade in a vise between two pieces of

wood, then with a file, they enlarge the opening of the

guard if it is necessary. Then, to rivet it,

one places on the rivet a piece of

&amp; the pommel a piece of wood, &amp; with a hammer,

one beats on it to align &amp; secure the pommel well. Then, with the

hammer, one finishes the rivet when the pommel is well secured

&amp; does not wobble. The wood is put there so as not to spoil

the pommel. Next, one finishes the rivet with a file or

chisel. And some make the b the rivet in a

square diamond-shape, but it is not as good

as the round one, for, when faceted, the rivet breaks.

The end is bought ready-made by the

dozen, which costs six sous for

the small ones, but for the the big ones 2

carolus. The end this is put either

with nails, which are put on the sides of the cutting edge, but

this only spoils the sword &amp; destroys the scabbard because the

water enters through the joint of the nail. It is best to

apply some rosin or glue on it, but rosin is better.

And it is best when the end is well adjusted &amp; set so hot that the

pulverized rosin melts on the end. In this way, it does not fall

and cannot be undone unless it is put in the fire.

Guards are of several kinds:

Worked

Guttered, which is with round moldings

Pearled

Scarfed, when the bands are crosswise

Onioned, which is with a flat head

In the King’s manner, which are plain

The furbishers buy them by dozens, the

dozen of plain ones commonly costs x lb. The

worked piece, 30 sous or depending on its

fashion.

The first thing the apprentice does is to furbish as

said.

And next, to garnish the sword &amp; make a scabbard, which is the

height of the art.

They buy the wood pieces of

beech wood for scabbards which are ready made, a hundred for xv or xx or 30

sous, depending on the distance from the place

where they are made.

These wood pieces are thus called

estelles, and have to be

very neat &amp; without any knots &amp; are one finger’s

thickness across.

Then the furbisher puts them on a small bench, called a

scabbard bench, and with a e

plane small iron

tool similar to that of the joiners’ bench,

they make it hold firmly. Then, with a plane

plane which is like a knife with two

handles, one works the wood

roughly from the top, next one passes the joiner’s

plane on it the better to even it. Next, one scours it on the

inside with a

round plane, also mounted with two handles, then with a

small narrow plane, one hollows &amp; scrapes it half a

foot toward the end of the

talan, and the shorter the better.

Without this scraping, the sword would always cut the scabbard.

The opening of the scabbard is called the mouth, &amp; on top is the

shape of the blade.

The stop, which is a leather rim set on the edge of the blade

shape, is made to stop the hangers.

When the estelles are well levelled, one lays the sword on top,

&amp; with a black stone, one marks the width of the

blade &amp; the length, &amp; then with a chisel, one cuts the

excess. And one passes a joiner’s plane to even it

well, according to the mark.

Next, one glues the two estoilles edge to edge and all

around, only as far as the shape of the blade extends &amp; not

elsewhere. And this is to make the leather or velvet of

the scabbard hold.

Then one puts the sword into the estelles. And precisely thus,

they set it in the scabbard, which is all sewn, and rub what is

glued along the shape of the blade

with tallow to make it run into the scabbard.

The scabbard is made of calf or sheep leather,

the calf ones are all in one piece, but not the sheep

ones. But, when the swords are long, one makes them in pieces which are

sewn between leather &amp; flesh, &amp; then they rub the

stitching thoroughly with a piece of boxwood to

cover &amp; even it. From a good calf skin, viii or 9 or

x scabbards can be taken. A

workman can easily make vi a day. If they

are too thick, one thins them a little with a plane. If the

skin is hard, one wets it in lightly lukewarm water, and

one does not leave it there for long. Next, the same

worker who made the wood piece has to adjust the

scabbard to be well made. It is true that for common people,

one may well get ones which are ready made, but they are never carried

as well. When the scabbard is made &amp; sewn with black thread,

one rubs it with a piece of boxwood or with a

cloth, having daubed it a little in oil. The scabbard of

a good cow is better than any and also costs more, except the

velvet kind. Under the velvet, one commonly puts plain

canvas or a sheep scabbard or a parchment cover. But

the best scabbard of all is a waxed scabbard, of either

velvet or calf. It is because one covers the wood

with thin canvas, which one next waxes, then one covers it

in velvet or calf. A waxed scabbard is worth at

least xxx sous, a cow one xx

sous.

From a sheep skin, v or vi.