Concave mirrors

The concave mirror composed in the aforesaid form produces an

endless number of pretty conceits which seem magic. If someone wants to see

oneself from behind, it is necessary to place the concave

mirror on the ground on its foot, &amp; let it be at a slant;

next, look at it from one pace away. But if you

look at it close up, it will represent you the right way up but

with your face quite large &amp; the hairs of your

beard as thick as

string &amp; will represent a nipple as large as a plate, and

women can see the secret places that they do not

want to show to surgeons. It casts the representation out of

itself, and if you touch the place the eye of

the representation with your finger, another finger

will come against yours.

You will make a light at night for someone quite far

away, if you place the concave mirror behind a candle

placed on the window. You will be able to read and write quite

far from the candle if you place it behind the candle

&amp; place &amp; turn the concavity toward you. If you put

the mirror at the end of a table &amp; a

candle on it, it will represent two lights on the

table for you. To see what is happening on a street,

shutter the window, whereby the more of it you can shut the

better it will be. Make a hole at the lower one, as wide as your little

finger, perfectly round, from one side to the other. Then

place a sheet of paper on the window

&amp; let the middle of the sheet be over the hole.

Pierce the sheet in the same place as the hole &amp; the same

size. After, place the concave face of the mirror toward the

hole, &amp; it will represent to you all those who pass by in the

street on the sheet of paper. Similarly with

the pierced door of a closed room. You can make wavy ones

&amp; triangular ones, in the fashion that Ptolemy describes, &amp;

Archimedes. The concave one also sets fire to straw from

quite far away, and lights a candle with the sun. Also, 

it heats through the reverberation of fire.