Pewterer

They also make their molds from metal which lasts

longer &amp; molds more cleanly than grais, because the

plate comes out without flashing &amp; smooth. But this is for the

rich because a mold costs fifteen or sixteen

frans. They are mainly made of metal, for basins &amp;

ewers &amp; salt cellars &amp; similar things which are fashioned.

For pints, molds are made with

white clay earth mixed with horse dung &amp; cloth

waste &amp; well beaten, because the pints, being sunk in a half round,

would not be able to release as well from the grais mold

as from the earth, which is soft. One makes the noyau of 

the mold of the said pints in grais.

In metal molds, one makes vents and casts all at once,

which is the reason that in the middle of the dish, no smoky black line

which comes from the vapor &amp; fumes of the metal that is cast,

which is the cause that in that spot, the work is lumpy &amp; very often

pierced. However they repair it with solder du

n, as is said. These fumes are made right in the middle of the

cast, &amp; in grais molds.

The plate can be hammered mar to make

it more vendable. But it will not last as long.

Depending on the size of their platters &amp; plates, they have

notches on the spoke of their iron wheels. And when they

want to apply

any dish or plate, they loosen &amp; undo with the strike of a

hammer the iron wedges that slide along the spokes of

the wheel. And, when they are at the notch and points that they

need, they tighten the said wedges, wedging them with the

hammer.

When their plates or dishes have been cast, soldered if needed,

&amp; purged of surrounding flashing with the hot soldering

iron &amp; then with a large file, they adapt it on the

wheel; &amp; first of all they wrap their

desgrusoue desgrusouer

with a rope, as thick rope as

the little finger, &amp; lean it firmly on the

crossbar to secure it well. And while someone else promptly

turns the wheel, they guide the sharp edge of the

esgrusouer by hand

s toward the edge of the round hollow, &amp; gently

guide it to the center of the circle. And this

desgrusouer is for removing the first rough &amp;

lumpy skins of the work. And next they even it out with ae cutting

iron called a plane, the sharp edge of which

they rub with a little putty on leather nailed

onto a piece of wood having, and this in such a way

that the flesh or grain is on the outside, for if the sharp edge of this

plane was not thus rubbed &amp; burnished, it would

not polish &amp; not burnish the tin,

au which would stay white, &amp; not black &amp;

burnished like a mirror. Moreover, they repair the work for the second

time with this plane as they did with the

esgrusouer. Then, with a knife or another

sharp iron, they scrape the edges of the platters or

plates to smooth them so that they are not found sharp when handled

Their hammers must be quite even &amp; polished, and if by

chance the rust, the or some other use, has

damaged them, they first polish them with emery stone powder,

then they finish burnishing &amp; smoothing with the putty.

Otherwise they would not strike neatly. It is also necessary that the

surface of the anvils be the same.