Second cast

When you have well molded the first part of the animal, that is the

back, the backbone, and the entire top part, and the

len half-mold where it is enclosed has set

and is hard enough, 

 +  uncover the whole bottom part &amp; side of the belly,

 now with a knife &amp; tant

at the thickest places, &amp; then with a penknife, where the

most delicate parts are enclosed, such as the legs, the tail, &amp;

similar things, and because the head is higher, you will also need to

look for it &amp; uncover deeper, and make a deeper notch there which

ought to release easily. That is to say, widening on the outside, in order that

the second mold that you will cast on it can come out well,

which even the animal can help with, which is malleable and obedient,

being natural. However, ad be more careful

when uncovering the throat of the lizard than with the

snake, for the lizard has large jaws &amp; large bones

that are not malleable and has hollow ears, where, if the wet sand has

entered, it is not aff easy to release. But you will

avoid all of this, if you uncover half of the head and those things that

you know do not release well. Once everything is uncovered well, blow

on top &amp; wipe each part, by wiping with tiny hog 

bristle brushes, slightly moistened by the end with a

little saliva, or with clear water, as you uncover

it, in order that your the uncovered lower part of your

animal will be very neat. #

🝋 With this done, dip the

rev your mold, for the length

of a paternoster, your mold in water, not

from the the uncovered side but

opposite &amp; the reverse of the uncovered thing. And this is in order that,

by sucking the water inside, the oil with which

you next anoint the other side to avoid, is not

imbibed at all, but remains on the surface &amp; prevents the second

cast that you will cast on it from attaching to it. Having therefore

thus dipped the reverse of your mold in the

water, take a paintbrush especially dedicated to

this &amp; anoint it with it, anoint with oil

the whole surface of the mold, except the animal, which must in

no way touch the oil, &amp; take heed to retrace well &amp; to anoint

with the point of a paintbrush between the parts &amp;

through all the delicate parts. And if by chance the oil is

imbibed, dip the mo reverse of the mold, as

mentioned, in water, &amp; you will see the oil return to

the surface in little drops.

Mold small animals like big ones, except that you need to make

delicate points of fil of cist

cittern strings, both long &amp; short.

        

remove with your small flat pincers, all the points.

And then

+ now with

However, leave the point of the throat, so that it serves as a

clue to find the head, which is deeper down than any other part, because

when making the arrangement you disposed it higher. It is also at the

level of the head that you should make the biggest notch, &amp; start

with this one to uncover, and follow the rest through the trace of the

points.

#

And if some bit of nail from a leg, or from a tail, or from another

should separate from the mold, put there

between the two a small grain of wax, &amp; with the point of a

hot iron wire, join it, then adapt your mold with a

knife, &amp; make notches on its sides so that the other

half binds to it. 🝋

This thus prepared, place your de first

half-mold on the cake of earth

clay, &amp; put the circle also around, &amp; make the mark for

the thickness similar to the first. Then, with another rather thickish

paintbrush, moisten well everywhere the uncovered half

&amp; the belly of your animal

And with eau-de-vie,

without leaving anything, if it is possible, which is not moistened, for

this is the secret which makes it come out neat. And next, as promptly

as will be possible for you, before the eau-de-vie

not evaporates, wet your sand and cast it in thrusts and by blowing &amp; moving the mold as you did

for the first one, making sure that the first q

beginning of that which you pour on the animal should be a little lighter than the

next one so that it moistens everywhere &amp; closely follows the more delicate

parts. So, leave it for a quarter of an hour to set, then

remove the circle &amp; the clay cake. And, with a

knife, arrange your two molds uniformly together in a

long shape of a mandore, as mentioned, because of the cast.

Then, dip a little the whole mold evenly, at the level of the

joints, in water, for this is another secret to unjoin them,

otherwise you will break everything. Separate them nimbly, therefore, by

this means, and next, extract gently &amp; with patience and method

the half of the animal remaining in one of the molds,

for pulling it sometimes from one side &amp; sometimes from

the other, to avoid breaking any of it, or also spoiling something from

the mold. And The latter being empty,

extract rejoin the two halves so that no dust

enters it, &amp; put them aside until you want to reheat them, make the

gate &amp; vents, &amp; place the clamps. As for the animal, so

that it does not dry &amp; that you might be able to mold it four of

five times, put it in water. And I think that it would keep even

better in eau-de-vie. However, the best would be to mold

in the same day the 4 or 5 molds that you can do,

because these corrupt animals in themselves stink within one day. Having left your molds one or two

es days to dry, for they stay

humid for a good month, make the vents on one

half 

+ Note that when you have made your second

cast, were you to leave your mold for one

day or a night without opening

it, you would need to then dip it in hot water or else reheat it

before opening it, as for crabs.

If, after both halves of the noyau have made a strong &amp; hard set, you

would not dip your mold in water, it would not unjoin at

all. But as you dip the reverse of the mold in water,

the imbibed oil collects at the top &amp; at the level of the

joints &amp; makes it separate.

However, take heed your second mold is of good thickness &amp;

that it is hard enough because if it is lacking in this, after having

dipped it in water, &amp; you want to open it, there is a risk

that it breaks. Take heed therefore to avoid this, and wanting to open

it, dip all of it in water and rub it everywhere,

where it will harden if it has set well. Then, take your two

molds, joined with a rough linen cloth in

order to have a better grip, and separate them with strength as if you

wanted to tear apart a loaf of bread. But if it happens to break, join

it &amp; on the reverse, strengthen the joints with clamps.

Next, you can repair the faults with small chisels.

to cast by the tail or from the back of the animal,

make it so that the vents come from

the head &amp; the middle of the body to join

to the said tail,

where the

gate is done, which is the

end of the

mandore. 

   

N And having done your cast, do not forget to make in

it some holes and notches because the metal will run more neatly thus than if

the cast were even, for it gets corrupted in its notches &amp; holes,

&amp; does not go so much at once, &amp; does not become as porous. This

done, put join t the two halves of your mold &amp; strengthen the joints,

putting around these some small clamps of iron wire of this shape

. They

prevent 

the molds from deforming &amp; corrupting while reheating.

    

This is the shape of the clamps