Gardening

For shield grafting, one needs to take the new issue

that the tree that you want to graft has made in that year, &amp;

there cut a branch on which you see that next to

raci the sprouting of leaves there are little

buttons that one calls œillets, which are the beginnings of

sprouts. One needs to nimbly, with a very sharp penknife, cut

in the shape of a shield a little bit of the skin with which

contains an œillet or sprout with the leaf, thus marked B.

But plusto Then, carefully make on the

tender wood, s which is in sap, on which you

want to graft, two lines thus de cut 

, then

make in the middle a cleft thus .

Next, separate, with the point of the penknife, the bark &amp;

open it from the cleft in the middle, and having neatly lodged your

shield so that nothing comes out but the sprout, bind it well &amp; wrap

it entirely with a slip of linen or very

soft thread, so that there is nothing uncovered but the leaf,

which in three or 4 days will give you an indication

whether the shield should take, accordingly it will be green. Leave your

graft seven or eight days thus, then unbind it &amp;

join it well to the bark, especially at the sprout, &amp; then rebind

all gently but not as strongly as before; &amp; if there is any output

or growth, leave it space to go out, &amp; do thus three or 4

times.

Next, when it is well b taken, cut the top

of the tree that exceeds your tree, ne three or 4

fingers above the shield for the first time, and

apr then, at the closest point, in order that it

closes. But heed well that when you make your shield no small hole

remains at the back of the sprout, for this would signify to you that

its root would be broken, &amp; your graft would never take; but make it

so that the back is intact. This type of grafting is practiced

from mid-May, so that the trees have already budded

&amp; made new

        

issue, until the beginning of

August, and so that the trees are in sap. Almond

trees, which by their nature are drier, lose their sap earlier, therefore

those who want to graft onto them mericotons,

apricots &amp; grafts of trees with pitted fruit, which are the

best there, they are grafted in the month of

January. Generally trees with pitted fruit, like

mericoton peaches, are grafted in clefts. One says

that trees de grafted en piolet or by

shield are later in bearing fruit than those by cleft.