A means to make the gate for small female lizards

Because you always have to make the gate by the tail, and because it is

uso delicate and thin that the gate would struggle

metal would run with difficulty, especially when it is curled,

roll wax in little threads of this thickness

    

and apply some with the hot iron wire, as is said, one at

the end of the tail &amp; the others, that are applied in the same way,

from one edge side of the tail to the other, as

you see depicted. But take heed to make sure that with the end of

the hot iron wire, the end of the wax barely touches

the animal, for the sand of the second cast will not touch this part.

But make sure that the end of the wax arranges itself only at the

edge of the empty part of the first mold. Make also conduits of

wax around the legs &amp; around the contours of the body which

are a little long, &amp; they will serve as feeders for the

molded thing.

Follow here above

🝋

When the tail, which is delicate and closer to the gate, comes out

well, the rest will also come out well.

The principal thing is that the ears of the snake come out

well-molded.

Your gate must be very thin at the entrance of the animal &amp; of the

thickness of a knife.

🝋 From small rolls, you make your gates and vents without danger of

crusting &amp; removing anything from the mold, because the

wax, being taken away, leaves the empty space all made. Make

your vents coming from the head, which is in the bottom, toward the

gate. Make also your gate so that it is too but a

little thick, and make within its course two or three notches, for

this breaks up the fury of the metal and makes it flow with ease,

without bubbling nor making excessive fumes, which hinders its run. You

can divide it also in two or three branches thus

    

when it approaches the molded thing, and always make holes in the

gate.

&amp; from these conduits &amp; feeders, you can also

put in small threads of wax which are joined to the body, in

order that the metal goes more easily from one part to another

&amp; promptly runs everywhere. And from these conduits, you lead your

gate &amp; your vents without spoiling anything.