Various animals entwined



You can entwine a snake entwine with a
lizard, one biting the other, or a snake that eats a
frog or a wall lizard s &amp;
suchlike. But because these entwinings can in no way make a good
release, cut what you can &amp; leave the rest to burn. And to keep a
wall lizard, which is small, in the mouth of the
snake, which is raised &amp; needs to be supported in the air,
po, because the head of the snake is posed
raised, put underneath the wall lizard se
an elevation of earth suited to support it. And if you put your
mold in the oven, the animal, drying promptly, will retract
&amp; will burn better afterward. if you see These entwinings are
also made to cover a wound or fault in the animals, which one usually
wounds when one catches them. Also, do not forget to attach &amp; join
with some wax s, finely applied with hot
iron wire, all the parts of the animal which pass one on top
of the other or those that you notice are not well fixed on the 
wax earthen slab, in order that the tempered sand
does not remove it. And it is to










avoid putting points, which should not be put except at the
raising of the head, at the thickest places of the body &amp; the simple
&amp; delicate parts in the middle of the lizard’s feet, the
nails of which you will enter into the clay slab, in
order that they remain secure. When you have made the first cast &amp;
uncovered the belly of the animal, do not forget to put small thin
s slabs of wax at the end of the
lizard’s legs. But, if it is a small wall lizard,
lightly cover with wax the entire bottom of the foot,
and and this the wax, being removed after
the second cast, leaves a cavity which fills these small fingers with
metal, &amp; then one repairs them. Take heed therefore to attach
well with wax the parts of the animal which pass one over the
other, in order that the wetted sand entering between two does not take it
away. And if For, if this were to happen mold
would corrupt, the shape in the first place would
spoil corrupt &amp; your mold also, because it would
not have the thickness that it you think &amp; would be
pierced &amp; spoiled. And, even though to avoid this you can make the
mold thicker, however, should l this mishap
happen, you will be able to repair it in this way.