Plaster

        

When you have it as a stone, choose the hardest bits and those

which do not easily crumble away with your nail, and

clean it well from powder &amp; filth before pestling it.

    

Plaster alone does not withstand fire but breaks up into pieces.

    

        

Reheated plaster se ga as is said here, keeps

well one or two months, well pressed, in a dry

place, if it is not rainy weather. But when

fresh, it is excellent for exquisite work.     

    

        

It must withstand the fire &amp; turn red like a lit

charcoal.

    

If the plaster is mixed with some dust or is not the

hard kind, it bursts in the fire &amp; causes flashing.

The hardest plaster, as was said, is the best

when it is from stone, therefore take it raw of this kind. Pestle it

well as finely as possible,

and pass it through the finest sieve or sleeve that

you can. A Being thus p fine, put it

in a good amount in a cauldron or

skillet over an open flame, &amp; as it begins to heat up, stir

it continuously, and heavy &amp; coarse as it is, it will become so light

&amp; so handleable that it will seem to you not to have any resistance

to handling stirring, as if it were water.

Keep stirring it continuously until it returns once again to being heavy

&amp; dense, and that is the sign that it is cooked. But do not reheat

it until your brick and feather feather alum are

reheated &amp; the clay circles are made. For it needs to be the

last one reheated &amp; when all the rest is ready, for the less

plaster #

Feather alum is the one that gives good

binding to sand.

Crocum ferri is appropriate for

gold. It is that one which, being mixed among the sand, receives it

&amp; holds it within its warmth.

    

# remains reheated, &amp; more

the more quickly it is

put to use, the better

it is, for it sets

more quickly. One ought not

to reheat it until

you want to

mold. And to 

reheat it, put it,

as finely ground raw powder,

in a

cauldron on ash

a clear flame, &amp; do not make it either too strong nor

too violent. Always stir with a long stick to avoid the vapor,

turning it around the cauldron &amp; in the middle, in a figure

8. At the beginning, you will find it heavy difficult to

stir, because it is full of moisture. As it heats up, it will start to

throw off some bubbles at the edge of the cauldron. And finally,

it will become like liquid &amp;, as it were, mealy &amp; like bran &amp; boiling in

the middle. Continue to stir continuously until you recognize that it

has once again become heavy

ʘʘ

    

ʘʘ

as heavy as before, and like a moderately thick paste, &amp; that it is

not so easy to handle as when it is liquid. It is a sign that it is

cooked enough, which you will know when it also throws off big bubbles or

exhalations, in the middle &amp; around, as long as a

finger. Seeing it in this state, remove it from the

fire, for it is heated enough, because if you were to reheat more, it

would be too much &amp; would not set as well. For when it becomes red

&amp; overheats, it loses its strength &amp; spoils the sand. Leave it

to cool before mixing it with the other sands. And when it is cold,

mix and mold, for the sooner after its cooking you use it, the

sooner it will set.