Cuttlefish bone

One ought not to cast either tin or lead too hot in it, for

it would burn the bone &amp; come out lumpy. And to

know when it is at a good heat, dip a little piece of twisted

paper into it. If it blackens it without lighting, it is at

a good heat. But if it burns it &amp; catches fire there, it is too

hot. Gold &amp; silver are able to be cast well

there, but it never comes out very neat. To mold something delicate

well, it is necessary that the bone be not so dry

If, for it is brittle &amp; does not release as neatly &amp;

crumbles &amp; flakes. However, before casting in them, dry them, &amp;

especially for gold, which does not want humidity. You will

recognize that they are dry enough when, after having brought the inside

&amp; the imprint of these to the fire, they cry &amp; crackle once

brought near the ear. Then, join them &amp;

lute the joints with a little clay, &amp; make it dry

lightly by the fire, &amp; cast, &amp; then shake the mold or

scratch over rough scales, &amp; let it cool before opening. Usually one

cuts the bone in the middle, and the dullest part and

that which does not have any half circles

    

is the most delicate and smoothest for molding, &amp; thus one always

imprints there the principal; the other is scaly on the inside, as it

demonstrates on the outside. Thus, one does not use this for delicate

things that are molded on two sides. One smooths &amp; flattens these

two halves on some smooth wood, then one scrapes

charcoal on top to make it release well. And to make the

charcoal run evenly everywhere, one knocks on the side of the

hand that holds half of the bone. Once both

charcoaled, one takes the main bone that is

prepared &amp; rounded on the sides, and having set the medal on top,

one tightens and presses it quite strongly.

But because the fingers do not press

evenly, for one if you press on the edges, the middle will

remain hollow. Begin, therefore, by the middle, &amp; then follow the

edges. But to make it better, put on the medal something flat &amp;

smooth, or some large square filee, &amp; press with

this, for you will press equally, sometimes after l

with your knee, other times with your

foot with your shoe taken off, &amp; make the

bone be on top; thus you l’emprand

will imprint it without breaking it. If, on the first go, it is not

molded well, return to it several times. Then, repair &amp; smooth on the

sides your d halves of molded bone.

&amp; And to cut it well, always begin coming from the

softest part to the scales. And if your medal does not come out by

itself, scratch the bone from the back, which is rugged,

and it will release. When you want to cast, secure &amp; join your two

bones with some small points of wood,

&amp;c. But to mold very neatly, there is only our sand.