Cast of wax to represent an animal that one has not

got

Take some white wax, which is more appropriate for this work

than anything else because it is firmer &amp; does not leave as much

filth, as much as you need to mold the animal that you propose,

&amp; no more, and half as much charcoal, pestled &amp;

finely passed through a linen or a sleeve.

The charcoal gives color and body to the wax,

which would otherwise be transparent &amp; the features would not be

seen as well. Therefore, put your wax to melt in the charcoal fire. And when it will be well melted &amp; liquid, take, for a

bowl with handles full of melted wax, as much

sulfur la as a large

walnut. Pulverize it, melt it over a slow fire, &amp; when

it is melted, do not leave it on the fire, because it will become

too hard, but take it away &amp; agitate it always with a

little stick, &amp; let it finish its bubbling, &amp; when it is as

liquid as water, throw it in the wax that you have removed

from the fire. And mix &amp; always stir the one &amp; the other, in

order that they mix well. Next, mix in, always stirring &amp; in several

goes, the aforesaid pulverized charcoal in several

goes. And as it will be well incorporated, take heed if

your wax has passed its high heat, which you will recognize

when it no longer smokes, when it makes large tracts

se re pulling at the

edges, &amp; motionless &amp; close to one to the other.

For, if you were to cast too hot, you could not separate your wax

from the mold, &amp; it would set in the cast. When it is in

this good state, stir it with a little stick, in order that

the pulverized charcoal is everywhere &amp; not placed

at the bottom. And in this way, cast in your mold, little by

little, &amp; not in one go, because the wax, by its

unctuousness, does not flow

This black sulfured wax is for modeling round figures that are

not for releasing and that one needs to burn in the mold à noyau 

before opening it, po like those

which have arms &amp; legs out front or entwined. And then this

wax, by means of sulfur, melts with very little heat and

exits without leaving any filth. If, by chance, the pestled

charcoal remains there as ash, by opening the mold

&amp; blowing inside, it stays neat.

To make snakes with wax, or another thing to fix on a

candle, one needs to cast with modeling wax of all

colors.

 like other things, &amp; on this occasion, you can cast two or

three times until your mold is full. As for the mold which

is of white plaster, pulverized &amp; reheated as for

previous sands, you should make it well in advance, for

it serves several times. But before you use it, soak it for a good

hour in cold water &amp; for at least

as long in water so hot, that, at

the beginning, you cannot hold your finger in it.

And q take heed that it does not imbibe

b more,thus but rather that it shows

itself to be very wet everywhere, without the water being imbibed in it.

And, removing it from the hot water, closed, cast your wax

in such a state of heat as has been said. And neither the first

nor second cast come out readily until the mold is imbibed. Let it cool

before opening it, in order that the cast thing does not break. You will

recognize that the cast is good when the wax spilled out onto the

outside of the mold is thin and smooth. Remember to make many

gates all along the mold, in order that the wax may thus run

better.

Make the first

 gate twice as large as for other molds. And if, in

the first cast, your work becomes porous and does not come out neat,

 it is all the same, for it is necessary that you

realise that the three or four first ones are not readily good. In the

first one, you recognize if there are some barbs, which keep from

releasing well and you remove them if they do not remove

themselves at the second or third first casts. And the more

you will cast, the neater you will make it, and your mold will serve

you for more than a hundred times if it is well managed. But it is

good to soak it one night or one

day before casting in it, in order that it be well

imbibed. The same must be done for fruits of sugar. This

wax is very soft &amp; amiable &amp; pliant as

copper, and it is so strong because of the sulfur, which

renders it meltable much before the other, thus that you can prove it on a

hot slate. And the sulfur that you will have put

in it will be found, the second time that you melt it, cracked at the

bottom. Having thus passed through the wax, it does not inflame

from a candle. And on this occasion, que I

think it will cast very neatly for medals. One uses the same wax

in place of varnish to etch

When your animal is cast, cut with a hot penknife the flashing

&amp; superfluous things. And if you want to refold it &amp; twist it

around on some stick or taper, put it to soften

on in hot water, and hold it while twisting it

around.

Cut down the protuberance of the gates, in order that they are smooth

&amp; that the wax has more of the silver to run in one

go without turning around in the folds of the snake.

etch on silver &amp; copper with aquafortis. With

this also, one takes the hollow form of the relief &amp; then one casts in

this hollow form some tempered sand, which once more represents the relief very

neatly. And then, you can cast on this one its hollow form in

copper, gold, and silver, and make seals of great

singularity.

Seals