Casting in ☀

Take a crucible with a capacity suitable for what you want

to put in it, coarsely pestle a little borax &amp; put it at the

bottom, then the ☼ on top. Arrange the crucible on the charcoals of the forge in such a

way that the wind of the bellows blows on it from underneath

and not at the side, for this would cool it &amp; would not heat it enough.

Make sure also that it is distanced three fingers from

the wall of the forge, in order that it can be surrounded with

charcoal. Let the said crucible reheat until it is quite

red. Then, make your boy blow on it with long and strong

pushes, for in this way it heats well better. And

nevertheless, blow by when the gold is melted, blow on

top with small bellows, for the gold will become

brittle &amp; take on a crust. And as long as it makes

swirling fumes as you blow thus, it means that is not soft

enough for the cast. Uncover therefore the crucible, &amp;

without moving ch it from its place and without

interrupting the blowing, make it lean toward you in order to see well

inside. Throw in it the size of a bean of borax,

&amp; blow inside in jolts with the small bellows. But if

there is charcoal inside, blow a little stronger to make it go

out. And if the gold smokes &amp; swirls, put some more

borax in and note blow on top, making sure that, if it

is still brittle &amp; not softened enough, it does not cover itself

when you blow, as if it had cooled. But if it does not make this sign,

it is soft enough. At that point, blow very strongly in order

to heat it well, and as you think it is hot enough, throw in on top, in

the crucible, the couleur,

composed, as said before, of verdet, saltpeter,

sal ammoniac &amp; borax, a little. And

let rest blow always with the small bellows, and the

gold will become shiny like

If you cast in gold some important piece, lute your

mold with the same sand where there is there is some

crocum.

If you want to cast some large work in gold or which is

important, make at the foot of the forge, or at one end of it,

a four à vent, where you can hold your

mold in the completely n red sand. 

One can cast two or three lb of gold.

a mirror. And when you want to  cast, put again a

little of the couleur &amp; let rest a little, always

blowing with the small &amp; large bellows. Finally, arrange

your very red mold between the moulets or in a

crucible full of very hot sand, &amp; cast. And when it has set,

throw, if you want, in water. For gold does not get

damaged like tin, which jumps.

To melt gold in ingots, it is of no importance to

gec blow on top with the little bellows.

For large works, the crucible of sand needs to be put in a

fourneau à vent, to become entirely red at the end of

the fournaise.

The gold that the wind hits or that one forges becomes

black. But a little aquafortis uncovers it immediately.

If you have some work to forge of latten

sol on latten, as one does small

statues, put between the gold &amp; the latten a plate

of lead. And before reheating the gold &amp; putting it again

in the fire, soak in aquafortis &amp; it will be

soft.

It is enough that the gate be of the thickness  of

the medal, that is to say from the middle of the gate to the medal. But

if the medal is very thick, one ought not, for this reason, to thicken

the gate, for a very thick gate never comes out well.

Mai Also, it could be made wide, as much as can

be done, to embrace the medal.