



Molding turtles

This is the continuation of the second preceding leaf. When you have
well uncovered the part of the belly of the turtle, the
underneath of the throat & of the legs, & having cleaned it all well,
do not forget to neatly uncover this cavity that these animals have in
their shell between the neck & the shoulders. Those of the
water do not have ones as deep as those of the
garrigue, which are leaner. And among
these, there are some that have ones more ensconced than others. Do not
forget, therefore, to uncover all of this well to better represent its
nature. But if there is some cavity which twists too much inside and
can neither be seen nor released,
    


 put in some small pieces of wax,
& with points of hot, thick iron wire, stretch &
adapt the said wax. Then, bouch stuff with
soft clay the entrance of all its cavities. Put the
clay circle around your mold, made already of
two pieces, which contains the back of the turtle. And to mold
its belly, one needs to divide in three, as you see. That is to say, you
will put an entre deulx of clay on top of the
throat & another on the edge of the shell of the tail,
#. And having oiled and the shell of
the belly & having rubbed it with eau-de-vie, cast your sand
a little thick, & temper with hot water as before. Having set,
remove these entredeulx of clay, then uncover
well the front & back legs, that is to say the part underneath &
the tail & the throat, & remove the clay from the cavities
qu, all in one piece if you can, for this will show
you if this cavity will release well. And if the pulled-out clay brings with it the wax that you put there, put back it in the places
that cannot release, as is said. And if some part is taken away or let
go, attach & rejoin it to the mold with some wax
& the point of hot iron. Do not forget to put some
po melted wax at the end of the nails of the
turtles to make the vent. Your belly shell molded and uncovered,
your mold can be seen thus.






in such a way that only the entire belly shell be uncovered, to mold it
alone














Take heed to make a border of melted wax, with a hot
iron, all around the edge of the top shell which is toward
the tail, in order the make the vent better. And make two little
strings of the same wax, r connecting from
the end the belly shell to the said edge of wax that is around
the shell of the spine, and make sure that turtle of
the tail of the turtle stays between these two strings. This is
to make the vent better. This done,
oil your mold and what appears of the shell. Put the
circle around & cast with hot water, as before,
observing there what you have observed. Do the same to mold the third
part, which is the tail. And having set, You Uncover
your mold remove the clay contour, clean your
mold, & smooth it & flatten it on all sides with a
knife, like for other molds. Dip it lightly in
water, then try to release it. Usually one begins
ment with e back the
back shell, it is that is to say, the mold on top,
which is in two halves, and this one is easier to release. The other one
follows after, but because it is neighboring the shoulder of the
turtles, which are deeply ensconced, it is sometimes awkward.
Thus, when moving & pulling the mold gently, take heed to
pull the one which will present itself as the easiest, for one needs to
release one after the other. The most awkward of all is the one which
molds the e of throat, the
underneaths of the legs & the hollow shoulder pieces, which are of
such bad release that if you had not provided for it, by filling with
wax before molding what does not release well, it will be awkward
for you to pull your pieces out without breaking something. But should
this happen to you, there is still a remedy, provided that you keep
pi the broken pieces.
    


 For you can reassemble them
with points of rather strong iron & fill the crack
or fault that could be there with melted wax & the hot
iron, as with others, in order that the core for molding
hollow is made better. Next
Go to the second leaf

To avoid breaking when releasing, take
heed to uncover well up until what can hold.

