

Tracing some history on glass

If you want to trace some history in intaglio on glass, you
can do it in different ways. Lay your glass pane on,
the thinnest you can find, on the printed history, & having cleaned
the glass well with lye & ash so that it is not
greasy, trace over the lines visible to you with noir à
huile or noir d’escaille with the
paintbrush; if you want to paint with colors in the
fashion of glassworkers, who wash their glass pane with
noir d’escaille & then scrape & clear the parts
which they want to coat with color, leaving that which is necessary for
shading. But if you want to make gilt histories on glass
with a background of colors, which imitates the basse-taille of
goldsmiths, gild your entire glass pane with
gum water or garlic juice or milk of the fig tree.
Then moisten your printed history between two wet
linen cloths, and lay it down on the gilt
glass. Then with a pin mounted on the end of a small
stick, follow the lines of your history as if you wanted to
pounce it, & thus you will exactly trace it on the gilding of
the glass. & next you will clear the background & that
which needs to be blank with a quite pointy steel awl,
& neatly follow once more the lines & accomplish your work
& make your faces & flesh colors in argent moulu;
then you shall fill the background with azur d’esmail or
verdigris or fine laque platte 
platte tempered with clear
turpentine, mixed with a little of tear of mastic if you want
that the colors are more even & do not spread. Next, layer on
the back of the glass & over the colors a white tin
leaf. And once this is dry, you can cover the tin leaf
of with color to hide your secret. The tin leaf gives
light to the colors. Thus you will be able to paint without being











at all expert in painting. If your glass pane is bulging as
if taken from the belly of some jar, it will show all the better for it. When you apply
your turpentine colors to your glass panes, first place
them on a hot tile &, once they are hot, spread your colors &
leave it a while on the tile, then lay down your tin sheet.

