

Experimented sands

X I have experimented with sand from
Thoulouse, & after reheating it well
twice, in a skillet, I passed it through a fine sieve,
like the apothecaries’ double, without finely
grinding it further on the porphyry, as I have done
previously. I moistened it with wine boiled with elm
root and molded with it a large piece of a portrait of
Jesus. I found it easy to release, without having it to knock
on it, Jen & molded neatly with one side in
relief & on the other in hollow, & of the thickness of a
coin of forty sous. I cast very hot


Sand from the mine, well chosen & well reheated, is the most
excellent of all, without looking for any other mixtures, because it
receives all metals. It does not want to be used hot, because it
makes things porous. The most finely ground for big works is not the
best, because it does have enough body to sustain.











with the material of a skillet mixed with a knob that is
potin. And before that, I had so reheated my molded
frame, now with the flame of my furnace, now putting
lit charcoals on top of it, that it became as if red. I let it
cool and cast. It came out very neatly in relief on one side & in
hollow on the other, as well for the figure as the letters. It is true
that the material was whitish, almost like metalline, but this was because
of the potin. I made another cast with only the material of
a skillet in the same sand, but not so reheated; it did not
come out well.

    



Since then I have molded the bone of oxen feet, burned,
pulverized & sieved through a double sieve
& hum very moistened with
glair of egg or wine boiled with elm root. I knocked
on it moderately while molding. Having undone the opened the
frame, I found that the figures had not released neatly &
left the molds floury & crumbling. I
them moistened the bone sand further, so that
it gave a good hold in the between the
fingers, and in this way, I molded neatly with a good
release. And even though it seemed to me that the pulverized bone
was coarse, if there is some material of a skillet thrown in, my
figures came out very neatly. It is true that I had very very reheated
my frame; it withstood only one cast. I find that
when a sand is so finely ground that it renders itself dense as
ceruse & even, like without knowing it to be arid,
rarefied, sandy & rather spongy, that it molds
very neatly, but it does not receive metal so well as if it were
porous to absorb the substance. But rather, once fatty & even, it
becomes porous & does not receive fine features. I believe that
the secret to cast well lies in finding a sand that receives the
metal well, one for lead, the other for another, for each
one has its particular one. Let it be molded slowly & carefully, and
leave it for a few days to become compact by itself, if you have the
time for this. And next, reheat it very well, not all at once nor 
with a large fire, but little by little, otherwise it crumbles &
always has some fault. Finally, you ought to cast copper or
latten or other great metals very hot &, if it is
possible, in large quantities of substance, which contain more heat than
small quantities. It is necessary that the frame be cold, &
that you cast all at once. Always lute the entrance of your
frame, for the metal, touching iron or
metal, 



This bone wants to be well pestled in a mortar and does
not want be reheated because it crumbles.











becomes porous. Most importantly, make it so that the cast is always
higher than the molded thing, because usually the sand, being reheated,
swells & if the by this in the middle,
& in this way, the molded thing remaining higher than the cast, the
metal cannot run into it easily or enter at all. Also, make sure
that the mold & the cast are well reheated. Cast also all
at once & out of the wind. And if your medal is really
thin, put a card or two or three thicknesses of
paper underneath, when you want to mold it. In
this way the mold will be lower than the cast. Cast also at the
place where your medal will be more es the least
thick & where there will be less relief.

