

Excellent sand for lead, tin, and
copper

D

Since then, I have molded with burnt bone, iron dross
& burned felt, thoroughly pulverized & ground finely on
marble and well mixed together. I moistened them very
well with beaten glair of egg. And having covered the medal with it,
as in the others, then filled the frame with sand from the
mine, I knocked moderately. I found it to be of very good
release & molded very neatly. I let it sit an entire night. The next morning, I reheated
it little by little, over the course of seven or eight
hours (for if possible, no humidity ought to
remain in the frame). I cast twice in copper
alloyed with ☾, as old
K. The substance
turned out very beautiful, shiny & sonorous, & without a
crust, and my sand was not corrupted at all. Since then, I
have cast with it several casts of soft lead & tin
that came out better & more neatly than any other that I have ever
found.

When you mold, make certain lines around your mold, in the
frame, in order to attract the substance to all sides, in this
way.




Potin of syringe & other
<-co-> works runs even better than fine latten.
But I think that it is better half copper &
half latten, which have been used & have been in
very thin works, such as skillets & other similar things. I have
seen this mixture of half come out well.









To mold well, one ought to cast in a big frame several
medals together, for when there is a lot of substance & the
crucible is almost full, it heats more, & then, if one
medal does not come out well, the other will be good.

It is better to melt in a bellows furnace than in a
four à vent, because it gives a more vigorous heat. It
is true that latten melts well in the four à
vent, because it is easier to melt than copper, being
more brittle.

Some founders have this superstition,
that only three days a week are good for melting, namely
Tuesdays, <-Wednesdays->
Thursdays, and Saturdays. The others, for them,
are unlucky.

When you mold, do not knock excessively on the medal, which is in
the sand, because it prevents it from releasing very neatly &
shakes loose the mold.

Take heed also that the sand does not surpass the edges of the
frame, for it makes the molded medal higher than the cast,
& in this way, metal will never enter the mold. Therefore,
always make sure that the surface of your cast object surpasses the mold in a straight line, and to do this, if it seems good to you, put a
piece of carton of whatever thickness you
please.

Founders, in order to prevent their large cast
works from becoming porous, are careful to reheat their molds very well. And
to know if they have been reheated sufficiently, they knock against it with
their finger, & if they start to ring like a pot,
then they are sufficiently reheated.

To cast their cannons neatly, they mix their earth
with some fine casting sand, if they can find any.


