001r


Master Nicolas Costé, in the Rue de la Heaumerie , at the
sign of St Claude /  Mirrors.


Master Jehan Cousin, who resides in the Faubourg St
Germain  , knows of the master.


Master Jehan Garnier, in the Rue des Escrivains   by
St Jacques de la Boucherie  , currier . Try
pastel woad flowers .



The harvester  that leaves some ears is not blamed.
Sacra Eleusinae deæ propalare nefas. 


Trumpets, see the book of funerals

 Vuolfangus Lazius.


Petrus Appianus mathematicus Ingolstadiensis, Comment. urb.
rom. 
 Hieronimo Ruscelli.


Hermolaus Barbarus.


Angelius Bargaeus, De aucupio et venatione.


Nicolaus Damascenus.
 Caesariensis , De rebus Persarum.


Isidorus.
 Orosius.


Eupolemus, historicus  gentilis qui de rebus Davidis &
Salomonis scripsit.
- Cathalogue des villes.


Calendrier des bergiers. 


Grammaire italie ne.


Arithmetique de Savonne.


Instruction pour le faict des finances.


Questions aenigmatiques.


Des praeceptes d'agriculture.
+ Le secret des finances à Lyon.  


Synesius.


Olaus Magnus.
+ Master Bernard Palissy, inventor of rustic
figulines  to the king and the queen mother.

 Aquatilium animalium  historiae, Hypolito Salviano
Typhernate authore, Romae  1554.

 Les Annales de Normandie. 
 Alexander Aphrodisaeus.


Polydorus Vergilius.


Appianus.


Athenaeus.


Pausanias.


Statius Thebaidos.


Servius, In Aeneidem.


Macrobius.


Aulus Gellius.


Alexander ab Alexandria.


Festus.


Nonius.


Magius, Miscellanea.


Pollux, Onomasticon.


Hyginus.


Berosus.


Suetonius.


Valerius Maximus.


Cornelius Tacitus.


Xenophon.


Seneca


Dionisius Halicarnassensis.


Sabellicus.
cum permultis
aliis  Julius Capitollinus.


Budaeus.


Spartianus.


Blondus.


Volaterranus.


Herodotus.


Paulus Manutius.


Strabo.


Julius Firmicus.


Quintus Curtius.


Dio.


Cornelius Nepos.


Flavius Vopiscus.
 Monsieur

 001v
For easing the belly 
Prunes  of Saint Antonin  , & if you like
you want put among them leaves of mallow  &
gilliflower  , adding in sugar  &, if one wants, a
little cinnamon   for the stomach .
Or else marshmallow  root  in a chicken 
broth . The fresh kind is more mollifying.
Beat syrup of sweet jujubes   with water  &
to take it in the morning  eases the belly .

 002r
Books to recover
The chronicles of Sigebert.

Ruffinus.

Irenius, In Exegesi.

Paule Emile.

Paule Jove.

Polydorus.

Bergomensis.

Philippe de Commines.

------------------------ Against pains
Turpentine oil , oil of Jacob  and salt extracted
from cabbage  ashes .

 002v
 Practica, cioè nova inventione di contegiare, stampata in
Brescia  per Vincenzo Sabio.

Emeralds of Brissac   
I have taken minium , 26 ℥  ,
crystal   and ground on marble    12
℥  , verdet  3
|ʒ|  . Incorporate all together, put in a
crucible covered by another well luted  that has a hole in the
top . Fusion 7 hours   without blowing. The mass
has been of a beautiful green.
I have taken minium  12 ℥  ,
crystal  6 ℥  , verdet  2
grains . Fusion soft vi hours  , cooked again
24 hours  . The mass has been of green, yellow, &
red.

Sapphire 
Pebbles  or crystal  8 ℥  ,
minium  16 ℥  , blacksmith 's
salt  4 ℥  , sparkling
coryal    4 grains . Fusion 6 hours  .

 003r
Counterfeit coral 
+ One needs to first make the branches of wood  or take a
bizarre thorn branch , then melt a lb  of the most
beautifulclear pitch resin  and put in one ounce  of
subtly ground vermilion  with walnut  oil , and if
you add in a little Venice  lake platte  , the
color will be more vivid, and stir everything in the resin  melted
over a charcoal  fire and not of flame, for fear that the fire
catches within. Next dip in your branches while turning, & if there
should remain any filaments, turn the branch over the heat of the
charcoal .
Colophony  is nothing other than resin  cooked again. To do
it well, take a leaded  pot  & melt the resin ,
& boil it over the brazier  a good hour  ,
& until it appears not to be thick, but clear & liquid like
water  & it easily runs & flows from the tip of a
stick  with which you grind it, & try it. Then pour it
through a coarse canvas   or a very light tammy
cloth  , in the manner that when pouring it falls into the
strongest vinegar  that you can find, for the vinegar  gives
it strength & prevents it from being so fragile. Reiterate this two
or three times & it will be beautiful & well purified. For
imitating your coral , you can mix a quarter part  of
mastic  within your purified resin  to render it more firm
and more beautiful, & if you should take only a tear of
mastic , it would be all the better, but it would be too long.


Sulfur  & vermilion  makes the same effect.

The coral  made of gules red enamel  endures the
file  and polishing.

It is made like cement  that is stronger mixed with crushed
than of  glass  rather than with brick . Thus one
mixes here with the vermilion  the gules red enamel , which
is red in body, well ground. Thus with all colors of
enamels .

Varnish  for panels
Take a lb  of Venice  turpentine  & heat
it in a pot  until it simmers, and put in half a lb  of
the turpentine oil  of the whitest you can find, and stir it all
together well on a charcoal  fire and take it off immediately. And
elle   it is done. But if it seems too thick to you,
add in a little more oil . Similarly if it is too clear, you can
thicken it by putting a little turpentine . Thus you will give it
whatever body you want. It could be made well without fire, but, when
heated, it is more desiccative. It is appropriate for panel paintings
and other painted things without distorting the colors or yellowing. And
it dries both in the shade  and in the sun , and
overnight , and during the winter  as well as
in the summer . It is usually sold 15 sols  a
lb .

A little more turpentine  than turpentine oil  is needed in
order to give body to the varnish , which needs to be applied with
finger   in order to spread it thinner and less thick,
for when it is thick, it turns yellow and sticks. One does not
varnish  to make paintings shine, for it just takes the light out
of them.

But it is used to enhance colors which have soaked in and to keep them
from dust. Mastic varnish  does not resist rain ,
whereas that of oil  and rosin  does.

Thick varnish  for floorboards
There is a varnish  that takes a long time to dry & still
drips up to two months  after it has been applied to the
floorboards. But this one does not drip like the one used in the
past , which was made of linseed oil  boiled with
garlic , to extinguish it & take out the fattiness, & with
wheat . And this one yellowed & made the blue color of
paintings greenish. This one is made like the other one except that one
puts common thick turpentine 
 
 003v
 instead of fine turpentine . And you can put into two
lbs  of tou common turpentine  one lb 
of fine turpentine oil  & proceed as with the other one. This
one will cost you no more than five or six sols   per
lb  & is sold for 40 sols   per
lb .
 This vessel  is used to make large quantities of
turpentine oil , that is to say a bucket  an
hour  . And no matter which turpentine  it may be,
whether fine or coarse. One needs to give, as you know, a little fire at
the beginning. And always keep cold water  in the cooler on the
top. The lb  is sold at xii sols  , & at the
bottom of the vessel  remains the colophony , known as
pix graeca  . Eau de vie  are also made well in this
vessel  and there is no need to distill it again. You do not
need a small oven  for this copper vessel , but
only charcoal  around it if it has a flat bottom, but if it is
round, you will place it on a trivet .

@ It is better to heat the varnish  a little bit, rather than to
put it out in the sun , because this makes the panel
warp.

@ Some say it is not good to distil in this copper 
vessel  because it is made green. However, when tinned , it is
good.

For varnishing
Turpentine varnish  does not need any glue  because it
is fat and viscous and it is not absorbed in the wood  like that
of spike lavender  and sandarac . Also, that ofspike
lavender  does not require any glue  on iron  &
similar materials that do not absorb, but on wood  and on colors
which have do not have gum  or colle
de destrempe  , it is necessary to lay one coat of the said colle de retailles   & to let it dry & to
varnish.

 004r
Varnish of spike lavender oil 
One needs to heat lavender spike oil  and as it begins to
simmer, put in powdered sandarac gum  so that it soon melts. And
over a charcoal  fire stir continuously until the sandarac 
is well melted, which you will know by taking a little of the said
varnish  on a plate . And if it is fatty when you handle
it with a finger  , it is ready. And for one lb 
of lavender spike oil , you will put five ounces  of
pulverized sandarac , although some only put in four
ounces , but this is not so good nor so fatty. This one is
promptly dry. Framemakers , to avoid the trouble of polishing
their ebony , varnish it with this, as do guitarmakers .
This is not as appropriate for panels as that of fine turpentine ,
though it is good for the moldings of panels. One did not used to
varnish the landscape of a panel when linseed varnish  was in use,
because it would have yellowed the landscape. But with that of
turpentine , one varnishes everything. You can put in
pulverized mastic  extracted in tears or otherwise, and it will be
more dessicative in place of sandarac .
If you want to varnish on plaster  or a wall, first put on
your very hot colle de retaille  , because if cold it
would not penetrate the wall, & when you would put your
varnish  on, it would come off.
Varnish of spike lavender oil  is not as appropriate for colors as
that of turpentine , for spike lavender oil makes them
die eats away at  the colors since it is too
penetrating.

To remove varnish  from an old panel that has yellowed &
varnish it anew
Take white soap  & sieved  ashes , &
soak both in water . And with a sponge , take the said
ashes  & soap  & rub the panel with them. And as you
see that the old varnish  is removed, throw a
bucket   of water  against the panel to clean it.
Next put it for a quarter of an hour  in the
sun  to make it dry and to revive the colors. Next, once the panel
dries, you can apply your turpentine varnish .


Make sure the colors do not come off.

 004v
Black varnish  for sword guard, bands for trunks,
&c.
Take linseed  oil  or more cheaply, walnut 
oil , and rid it of fattiness with garlic   &
onions   + hog's
fennel   some also add bread crusts  , which you will
boil in it for a good quarter of an hour  . Then add
to one lb  of the oil  thus boiled a piece of black
pitch the size of a walnut   & a double
handful  of wheat grain  , without removing the
garlic   & onions   and let it boil
together for a good quarter of an hour  . And when the
pitch  is well melted & the oil  has body, you can
remove it from the fire. Then, to varnish, place your iron  over a
low charcoal  fire & apply your varnish  with a
feather  or a brosse  . And when you see that it
no longer smokes, it is done and your varnish  is dry.

For excellent black varnish , add two or three paternoster
beads  of jet  among the rest.

Some consider walnut  oil  better.

If there is a lot of varnish , it needs to boil for at least
half a day  , for it is better the more it boils. It
is dangerous if the fire catches within, if it goes over the top, and is
hard to extinguish. Make this therefore in a courtyard  or an
open space .

In five or six lb  of oil , one must put one lb 
of galipot , which costs 4 sols  , & some
peeled garlic  cloves . This varnish  itself is not
black, but blackens over the fire.

See below, around the 3rd part of this book, after sands, in the chapter
on furbishers .

Black varnish  without fire, without disassembling the
harnesses or removing the bands from trunks
Take varnish of spike lavender  oil  & mix it with
soot black  or lampblack , & without fire it will mix in
by itself. Varnish with a brosse   & it will soon be
dry. Turpentine varnish  will be quite good, but it does not dry
as soon.

Varnish ofiron engravers  
Take linseed  oil  or walnut  oil 
&, in place of black pitch , you will put in a little
resin , & it needs to be cooked in the manner of black
varnish  on fire. And for applying it, heat your iron  &
give it only one layer of varnish , & when it no longer
smokes, it is dry. Next engrave with a steel  point 
whatever you want. Next take salt  &
verdigris  & soak as much of one as of the other in quite
strong vinegar  & leave it for XX4 hours  
before using it, & all will be soaked. Next spread some of this
liqueur or sauce on the engraved object with a sponge 
 
 005r
 or linen   & leave it thus for xx4
hours   & it will be engraved. But if you should
want to engrave quickly, varnish all your work & boil it in the
aforesaid liquor, and it will engrave quickly.

Steel  mirrors
+ They are called of steel  because in the
past they were commonly made of steel  polished with potée of
emery . But more easily, various kinds are made of cuivre
franc , which is rosette , and tin , because this can be
cast in a mold & made round, concave, convex & however you like,
to produce various forms.
So take half of rosette copper  & half of soft tin ,
that is to say fine, which has not yet been used. Put them in a
crucible, & first melt the copper  well. And once it is well
melted, put in the tin  and mix together. Then cast in the mold,
of white stone  with no eyelets, & grease the mold with
oil , & let the mold be moderately warm. Then, having molded
your mirror, you can polish it in this manner.
Set one of these in plaster  in order that it holds firmly,
& then put the other one over it with thin sand in between, &
rub one against the other, whether hollow or flat, & thus you will
polish two at once. And if you want to polish them on both sides, you
only need to switch them, which means putting the one that was polishing
into the plaster  & using the one that was in the
plaster  to polish. After having polished them with the
arene   you can soften them with tripoli of Venice ,
which should not be sandy, & after with potée . You polish
with arene  using water , but polishing with tripoli 
& potée  is done dry. Once polished, you can set it.

Concave mirrors
The concave mirror composed in the aforesaid form produces an
endless number of illusions which seem magic. If someone wants to see
oneself from behind, it is necessary to place the concave mirror on the
ground on its foot, & let it be at a slant; after, look at it one
step away. But if you look at it closer up, it will show you the right
way up but with your face quite large & the hairs of your beard as
thick as
 
 005v
 string & will reflect a nipple  as large as a plate, and
women can see the secret places that they do not want to show to
surgeons . It casts the representation out of itself, and if
you touch with your finger  the eye of the representation,
another finger  will come against yours.
You will be able to make a light at night for someone quite far
away, if you place the concave mirror behind a candle placed on the
window sill. You can read and write quite far from the candle if you
place it behind the candle & place & turn the concavity towards
you. If you put the mirror at the end of a table & a candle on it,
it will represent two lights on the table for you. To see what is
happening on a street, shutter the window, or the more you can shut the
better, make a hole in the bottom pane , the size of your
little finger  , perfectly round all the way through.
Then apply a sheet of paper onto the window and let the middle of the
sheet be over the hole. Pierce the sheet in the same place as the hole
and of the same size. Then turn the concave face of the mirror towards
the hole, and anyone passing by in the street will be reflected on the
sheet of paper. Do the same with the pierced door of a closed room. You
can make wavy mirrors  and triangular ones, such as are
described by Ptolemy and Archimedes. The concave sort can also set fire
to straw or light a candle from afar, using the sun. By reverberating
fire too, it can provide warmth.

For bronzing in yellow and white
Take mirror tin  and melt it. On half a pound of this, put
half an ounce of quicksilver , and remove it immediately from the
fire and grind it until it is like ashes. Wash it thoroughly in clean
water , then grind it on a marble  slab  and soak it
with water of glue de retailles . Then apply that on your wooden
candlesticks and any other works you like, and burnish with a
tooth . You can grind pin filings  and apply them with the
said glue de retailles  . 

 006r
For laying down and setting burnished gold  and giving red
or green or blue
Ceruse  & lead white  is not appropriate for polished
white nor for burnishing because it is fatty, but it is quite good for
or mat  that is made with oil  by mixing it with yellow
ochre  & mine p o  & by tempering
all of it with oil . And this or mat  thus applied keeps
in the rain  like gilded leadwork  & similar things.
Therefore for burnished gold  take good chalk, quite white,
well ground , & soaked with distemper glue , & make
four layers of it, one after the other, on the wood . And once the
last is dry, rub it with prele   , which is a
plant otherwise called horsetail  , to render it well
polished. Next take fine Armenian  bole  &
sanguine , as much of one as of the other, lamb
 tallow  as large as a bean   or a
pea   depending on the quantity of bole , and a
little of willow  charcoal  or as much as the
tallow , & half a walnut  shell  full of
half-burned saffron  . Some put in a little candi
sugar . Grind all together with water , & apply it without
gum  or glue , & let it dry, & rub the place that
you want to gild with a piece of white cloth  to better make
even, & when the rubbed place is a little shiny, it is a sign that
the gold  will carry itself well. Having rubbed, wash with a clean
pinceau   soaked in clear water  the place that
you want to gild & immediately apply the gold , which you will
burnish once dry. And if you want to lay in rouge clair  
& glaze with it de  , grind Venice
 lake platte   on marble   with
walnut  oil  or linseed  . Once ground, mix
turpentine varnish or spike lavender   & apply on the
gold  with the pinceau  .
Brazilwood   & lake ronde   die. For
green, temper verdigris  with walnut oil   or
linseed   & grind, next mix in turpentine varnish
and not of spike lavender  , which is not suitable for
verdigris . If you want to glaze with azure , it needs to be
set on burnished silver  and take azur d’esmail  ,
&, without grinding, temper it with turpentine varnish  &
apply it.



 006v
For cages
You can embellish them with thin enamel canes 
of various colors by covering the yellow latten  or iron 
wire with said canes. These you will break neatly into the length that
you want if you make a small notch with a cutting file  at the
point where you want to break them, and they will not break anywhere
else. You can bend them with a wood en model over a brazier or by
the heat of a lamp . A cane can be stretched out as long as you
want in a small furnace  made like a reverberatory oven 
but with openings on both sides. And once the large cane is red, they
seize the hot end of it with small pincers  that have long
beaks, with one end of the beak inside the end of the cane, so that it
may be stretched without becoming blocked. The other end of the cane is
held with the hand, as it is not hot. Once the cane is stretched enough,
the one who is working seated with his stove , the size of a
carnation pot, placed in front of him, breaks it off and carries on.
This is for making canes for capes, which may be cut, as already
mentioned, with a file . Glass-button makers  also use
the said stove .
 
Under the door is a grill that supports the burning charcoal . The
ash  is emptied by turning the stove  upside down.

For stamped ornaments used for embellishing and inserting into or
covering the edges of mirrors, the tops of chests, or the friezes of bed
valances
Etch with aqua fortis  on iron  or copper 
whatever you have pounced and drawn there, next make it neat with a
burin  or chisel . Then pour doulx  tin ,
yet unused, onto polished marble   & flatten it,
making it quite thin, with a wooden  board . Or else pour
it on a table  as is done with lead , or put it through a
roll-press . Next lay your tin  plate over the engraving,
& over the tin  plate put a piece of felt   and
strike it with a hammer . Then gild  it in the following
manner.

 007r
For gilding with gold color  and tinsel 
Once you have gilded colored , make your
stamped ornament in tin  as said, or in iron dest   or copper , one ought not to put a layer
ofglue  here as on wood , but take only fatty oil ,
which is made in seven or eight days in the sun  with
walnut oil  and lead white & with , stirring
it often, or cooking it on the fire if one is in haste. Then, with the
oil  thus made fatty, grind a little lead white ,
massicot  & mine de plomb    ,
at discretion, as much of one as of the other. Minium  gives color
to the gold . Next, with this, you make a layer of it evenly on
your stamp, taking care not to fill the hollows. And once it is almost
dry, lay the gold  leaf on it with cotton . Such gold 
will hold up in the rain  on houses & elsewhere. And if
you have gilded with tinsel , color it with fumée de
perdrix   or from yellow or red cloth , & it will be
beautiful like pure gold . You can cover trunks, mirrors, canopies
& posts of beds of colored velvet  or satin  and then
apply the gilded stamped ornament on them with strong glue .

For coloring stamped trunks
The stamp of sheets of copper or latten  is made on
service tree wood  engraved & cut should you want to
spend less. And next, the stamped object is colored with the aforesaid
colours of lake , verdet , azur d’esmail  ,
& soak in turpentine varnish . But in the place you want to
azure , lay down fer blanc  , which is more
appropriate for an azure  background.

Doublets
Good dragon 's blood  soaked in eau de vye 
carries its mastic  or glue  in itself, so do
sap-green  & saffron  .

Fish  glue  or usblac  and mouth
glue 
It is made from codfish  skin  that has been boiled
rather than salted . Joiners  use it on their
masterpieces and guitar makers  use it for their more delicate
works. It needs to be strongly beaten, then soaked gently in barely
boiling water .
Mouth glue  is made of parchment  scraps and used to
glue paper  or similar things without fire, by wetting it with
one's mouth  .

It is beaten and left to soak in white wine  for one night, then
melted over a low heat. Others soak it in spirits .

 007v
For giving the color of all kinds of metals  to wood 
& other things
Take touchstone  & pumice stone  as much of one as
of the other & grind them together & mix with a glue de
retailles  stronger than that used for painting, & paint it on
whatever you like. Once dry, rub this layer with any metal 
whatsoever, then burnish it.

Against windy colic
Take a dozen dried common walnuts   &
throw them one after another into a good brazier  where they may
catch fire, & take them out with tongs , and let them burn
& flame well in the air, and extinguish them in a glass 
of good wine  . Next, let the wine  cool and strain it,
& pour half  of it, for six extinguished
walnuts   are for one dose . Excellent cure
against the suffocation of the matrix .

To relieve the pain of gout 
Take half a lb.  of finely pulverised golden & yellow
marcasite , half an ounce  of storax , 4 lb .
of urine , incorporate everything well together, little by little,
in a mortar , then boil all together quite thoroughly. But the
pot  needs to be well covered in order that the smoke does not
breathe forth. Next distil the it is  imbibed urine ,
separated by inclination, in an alembic well luted & covered
with a copper  helmet . & soak a linen 
cloth  with the said water  & apply it lukewarm on the
pain.

Against gonorrhea
Boil i. lb.  of old water of smiths  , .i.
℥   of Armenian bole  reduced to the
finest powder, and .iii. ʒ   of common
honey , to clarify the honey . Once cooled, it shall be
strained with great pressure & the filtrate shall be used by
injection.

 008r
Gold  lettering on paper 
Write with milk of the fig tree   then let it dry a
little, next lay the gold leaf, & once quite dry, rub with a
linen  cloth  and only the lettering will remain.

To explode grenades and give force to fireworks
Put into the powder  one sixth as much of
quicksilver 

Tempering bullets to pierce bullet-proof armor
Heat the lead  bullet as much as you can without melting it,
and once it is hot dip it into the strongest vinegar  that you
can. And do this four or five times. Afterwards, mince some lard 
very finely and some linen  also very delicately, mix all this
together and use it as wadding, making it go into the arquebus or pistol
with a little strength and very tightly. And before shooting, if
possible, the bullet should be hot.

To make a breach in a wall by night
Having made a hole in a wall as you know, put one mortar inside,
charged with powder , almost flat, and another upright, then fill
in the hole and fire.

 008v
Polishing of the balas ruby 
It is not polished with tripoli but  like the
others, but with marcasite powder  & oil .

Or moulu   et argent moulu  
You need to calcine your fine gold  with
☿   and then wipe your amalgam well & make the
said mercury  fly off. Next grind it on marble  
with gum water . As for silver  one needs to take it as is
& eat away at it with aqua fortis  , then take it out
with a copper  blade  & rinse it thoroughly and next
grind it with gum water .

Polishing stones 
There are three wheels for doing this, one of tin , one of
lead , & one of fine copper  , on the
cu  copper  wheel  one does not
commonly cut co   or polish but the diamond ,
the ruby , sapphire , & oriental jacinth . The
tin  wheel  is for more tender stones like emerald ,
amethyst , & others.

Pewterers ’ mixture   
Because among the fine tin they often mix well half 
of lead , which renders the tin  dull. To correct this, they
mix in some latten filings  to render it
sonorous .

Perfect amalgam
Take the most delicate stoneware  you can, with a cavity in
the middle. Put in an eighth part  of ☿  in  & while adding water , rub & wear down your
☾   or ☼   until the
substance becomes like paste & even harder. Next, if you want, eat
it away with good aqua fortis  , if it is
☾   or ♀  . Then remelt it,
having taken it out as you know. The ☾   will be
colored, and having been melted, will leave some grains of
☼  , & the ♀   will be
very fine & will have almost no chappe .

 009r
Plowman 
Because millet   is naturally very dry,
harvesters  beat it most often at night in the cool
& by moonlight  . Which could not be done with another
grain  that is wetter, for one le  must let the
sunbeams pass through, and one scarcely beats it until the sun is
approaching midday . Quickly after the millet   is
cut, one needs to plow the earth because the root eats & thins it as
much as if the millet   was still standing. The ground
where the millet   will have been sown is quite
diminished of its fertility & c , which one knows
well at the next sowing  that one makes. But above
all the grain  called pomole   in Gascony 
or baillard   in northern  France ,
makes, according to the common saying, the earth shake seven
years  later. Beans  improve & enrich the soil, as
long as one lets the roots & stems rot in it.

Painters 
Some, having laid down their color, soften it with the back of a
feather  but the large brush  is best.

Merchants 
They commonly have four books. The tiro, which is a formulary for
apprentices, by which they can know how much every item of merchandise
costs and for how much it should be sold. The second is the waste book,
where they put down in rough what they sell daily. The third is the
sales book, where they put down the clean copy and detailed account of
what is contained in the waste book. The fourth is the ledger, which
mentions the sale, the balanced account, the bill and the term of
payment, and this book is accepted as evidence in court.

 009v
Painters 
They completely melt orpiment  in a glass 
bottle  on very hot ashes, but it would be more appropriate to
sublimate orpiment  in a long-necked matrass  as for
making garnets . The orpiment  thus turns red like red
enamel  & one needs to grind it damp because once completely
melted it is very lively & difficult to grind. Next, you can
br   thin it, once dry, with oil  & it will
make a deep yellow of heightened color. But to prevent orpiment 
from dying with the other colors & to render it compatible with
these & to make it dry promptly, it is held a very rare secret to
calcine common salt  & to grind it within. Green
verditer  is not used with oil .



@

Merchant 
The order that merchants  are accustomed to keep in their
books, which are the waste book, the sales book, and the ledger, also
called the account book.

Waste book
First, François du Cros owes from 2 September 1581, for 1 canne of
batiste  at 8 livres per canne, total --  8 livres
tournois


Moved to the sales book at r. 25/
François du Cros owes from 2 September 1581, for 1 canne of
batiste  at 8 livres per canne, as shown by the waste book at r.
25


Moved to the account book at r. 55/
François du Cros owes from 2 September 1581, for the merchandise
taken by himself, as specified in detail in the sales book, No. 7, at r.
55, the sum of 8 livres, of which the aforesaid du Cros has made a bill
on the aforesaid day, to be payed on Saint Andrew's day next, total
--  8 ...  r.

 010r
Counterfeit jasper 
Take horn  from which one makes lanterns, quite thin, &
underneath make the figure of your jasper , cornalines ,
& other stones , which will be a work more appropriate than on
glass , which is too shiny. And the horn  presents a lustre
& a fatty polish like jasper .
You know, as with scrapings of the said horn , the
roses   can be imitated. The horn  colors for
this jasper  wants to have a base with clear turpentine  or
spike lavender  varnish . And colors matte in body
are not so appropriate here, however beautiful they are. One
needs to oil  the unpainted reverse with spike
lavender  oil . 


Thin glass , for this effect, is very beautiful.


You can encrust beds with it & on the joints you can throw the
filings of talc or of pins  on the fresh cement  of the said
joints. One needs to join them with gum ammoniac  mixed in
vinegar . To better counterfeit marbled jasper , apply
wool of thick hairs  dyed in diverse colors & intermingled.
After you have laid down all the colors, scrape oblique lines on them,
then lay down gold &silver leaf . If you lay down on the
horn  colors of turpentine , give it a base of silver 
or of tin leaf . You can also file horn  & mix
it with strong glue , & lay it down onto the joints of the
piece of horn , then even it with a plane .

Stil de grain yellow 
It is made in Lyon  from the juice of weld  &
chalk  mixed together or better yet with ceruse , which is
appropriate for distemper  and oil . 

Roses 
These are counterfeited either with the scrapings of
  horn used for lanterns , or with scrapings of
parchment , very clear, delicate & dyed, employed as you
know.

Purple color
Painters  make it beautifully by making the first layer of
common azur , or better yet azur d'esmail  , &
next they glaze it with lake , which will be more appropriate for
this if you mix in alum , which gives it a violet tint depending
on the quantity that you mix in.

Powder for hourglasses
It is made very subtle & not subject to rust &by its weight
able to flow. Taking i lb  of lead , melt it and skim and
purify it from its filth, then pour into it four ℥  of
finely pulverized common salt , and take good care that it has no
stones  nor earth. And immediately after you have poured it, mix
continuously very well with an iron tool  until the
lead  and salt  are well incorporated, and take it
immediately from the fire, stirring continuously. And if it seems too
coarse, grind it on the marble   and pass it through a
fine sieve , then wash it as many as times as necessary until
the water  becomes clear, throwing out the fine powder that will
float on it, renewing the water  as many times as necessary until
it is all even.

 010v
For painting in oil  on taffeta without the
oil  running 
One needs to make a layer of batture  , which is made
of well cooked honey & turpentine   of colle
forte   soaked for 24 hours  in water  then gently
brought to boil so that it is hardly strong. Next stir in a little
honey  to soften it, & make it boil all together. And on top
of this layer, which will soon be dry, you will be able to paint in
oil , which will soften the layer even more, and which can also
serve to make a ground layer for gold . Water of alum  also
keeps oil  from running.

Ground layer for gold leaf  on parchment  or
paper 
Make very clear starch glue , showing no body. And make
thereof six or five layers, & on the last, once it is half dried,
apply your gold .

For cleaning gold leaf  applied to iron 
Rub your weapons or other gilt objects with dry horse 
dung .

For whitening ceruse 
Hard-boil eggs, divide them in half & take the yolk out,
& between the two halves of the white  put a piece of
ceruse , & tie them together with thread . Then boil
in clear water , & it will become entirely black, & thus
the ceruse  will be purified. Some reheat it over fire & it
becomes very white.

 011r
Painting esmail d’azur  in oil 
This is a secret that is hardly known to common painters .
Some take the most delicate they can & grind it with ceruse ,
which binds it, and next prick with an awl  in several places
the area they want to paint with azur d’esmail , such that the
oil  enters & leaks in, & ne   does not
cause the azure , which in itself is heavy, to run. Others lay the
panel flat & put down the azure  on it, which is also done
à destrempe . The main thing is to grind it well on
marble  , and before that, to have washed it thoroughly.
Some grind it with  thoroughly with an egg yolk  &
then wash it in five or six waters    and lay it
on not with a painceau  , which would be too soft, but
with a broisse   thoroughly softened & crimped,
& laying it on thickly as if one were putting it down with a
trowel ; settling down it evens out and flattens. I have
experienced that grinding azur d’esmail   with egg
yolk  & next washing it in several waters   is
good. However, it loses a little of its vividness in the grinding of it.
I have also washed it in several waters   &, when it
had settled a little, I removed the water  , still
q  blue, with a sponge  and squeezed it into another
vessel thus where it settled, & from the
residue  I had the ash, flower and subtlest part of the
azure  without grinding it, which is the best, for in the grinding
of it, it loses some of its tint. Those who make it in Germany 
compound it like enamel , in large pieces which they pestle, &
pass through several sieves  & wash.
To make azures  beautiful, they wash or soak them in a
rock water   , as they call it; it is a
water  distilled from mines where azure  or vert
d'azur   is found, which distills naturally through the
veins of the mountain  or is distilled through an
alembic par   from mineral stones of
azure  or copper .
Azure  ash  are only good for landscapes because
they die in oil . Only true azure  holds on. Azur
d’esmail  cannot be worked if it is too coarse. Try it, therefore, on
the fingernail   or the oil  palette . If
it    happens to be sandy, do not grind it except with
the egg yolk  or, better yet, wash it in clear
water   & with a sponge  remove the colored
water   after it starts to go to the bottom, and in this manner
you will extract the very delicate flower, which will be easy to work
with.

 011v
Color of damascene  steel  on knives 
Rub the steel  with common aquafortis , mixing the said
water  with earth   & next rub the whole with
ashes  or sand . & the gold will touch & the
silver  as on a touchstone  .

For getting rid of the redness of eyes  or bruising
Make two small thin slices of raw mutton  flesh ,
& with a head band , apply to the eyes at
night .

For coating with or mat  
There is nothing better than the black varnish of
sword-makers  to make a ground layer because it dries
immediately & makes the gold  appear very beautiful.

For diamond  points  for engraving
These are for tracing what you want to draw on stones  &
engrave, & when these points  are fatty & cannot bite,
one needs to rub them diamond  against diamond . One rubs
them with diamond pumice stone powder  . One
needs also to unpolish on a lead  wheel  either the
stone  or the glass  on which you want to engrave, for the
polish, which is like varnish  on glass , prevents the
diamond  or sapphire  from biting well. But  This
is why it does not bite easily on the hoof , which is polished
& fatty. But when the polish is taken off, it bites
easily.

Polishing a copper  wheel 
Instead of polishing your stone , it is necessary to remove
the grease by rubbing the flesh side of a piece of leather on the wheel  , all while spinning the wheel 
if you have not worked on it in a long time.

 012r
Molding sulfur 
Sulfur  is made beautiful mixed with soot black  or with
pulverized sanguine , which renders it harder and stronger. Having
let it melt well until it becomes liquid, like oil , mix it with
verdigris , and you m   will cast in
plaster  very neat a lizard , or something else.


You must not cast that which has not become well cooled & that which
has not lost all its lumps & bubbles, and has not settled down well
& become smooth like   water . The soot
black  gives it a fine luster & makes it neater. The most
beautiful yellow sulfur  must be used, for the greyish &
lively sulfur  is not good. Do not cast in wind  &
cold , for it would become porous.

Chimolee  
The terre chimolee  , otherwise known as
fuller ’s earth , from which they finish the
cloth , is excellent for molding hollow or in relief; & if you
want to reheat it, it must first be warmed, & reheat it gently on a
low, indirect fire, & little by little, otherwise it would crack.
Put the figure to reheat in a pot  in an oven , or in a
covered oven . It is very malleable, clean & fine. You
can make a cavity for animals of chimolee   & cast
lead  in it. 


The work needs to be dried for 4 or 5 days  before you reheat
it. When you mold & make a cavity from chimolee  , do
not press too hard, but softly, for it would break.

Paper 
The whitest & finest is the best. And when the cavity is quite
clean, as of sulfur  or baked chimolee  , it is made
very neatly. You can give it one or two layers of white  with a
border of gold  to imitate alabaster . And after you have
applied the white , you can burnish it with the tooth .
But in order for it to be burnished, one needs to mix the lead
white  with glair of egg  & peelings from the fig
tree  . Or better, varnish your work with white varnish .
In addition when you are molding with paper , as it starts to dry,
burnish from the back with the tooth .

Plaster 
That from the mountains  is greyer, and the  the
one from the region of Albi  is whiter. It must be heated over a
closed fire, such as a reverberatory furnace  or fours
de barbiers  . And the most freshly cooked is the best. It must
be finely ground on marble  . After having prepared your
cavity from sulfur  or something else, & oiling  it,
& having enclosed it in a circle , temper not too
thickly your plaster  with water , & separate it well
with your finger  , and if it makes lumps, throw in more
powder of the said plaster  &    grind it with
the finger   until + 
+  it makes no more lumps. Then cast & sprinkle
again with plaster powder  & leave to set well, then scrape
off the powder.

 012v
Moulding stucco  quickly
Grind & pulverize finely brick  or Armenian 
bole  or sanguine  & incorporate it with melted wax ,
& thus melted, cast like the others on a relief medal ,
& thus you will have a cavity where you will be able to cast with
plaster , crushed paper  or terre chimolee .


Finely sieved brick  is better, because the bole  is too
fat

Cleaning yellow pearls 
Gently boil them in the bouteure  of the
goldsmith   then, with tripoli  & a piece of
leather , sprinkled on the flesh side with the powder of the
said tripoli , rub & polish the pearl .

For whitening enilanroc 
Some think that the crust of ceruse  color which is natural on
top, others say that it is a secret of ancient lapidaries 
that is lost, others say that it is reheated enamel . And by means
of the said crust, multiple ciphers, letters, circles
st   & other bizarre things can be formed. As for
the method, I have practiced thus. Once I wished to give it a layer of
arsenic  ground on marble  . However, I experimented
without this, and I put the above said thing, enilanroc , in a
small iron  casket  on the fire of my
goldsmith 's forge  with three or four small
half-burnt coals , and blew only with my mouth . And,
however, the thing came to redden &  ignite & became
all white, not only on its surface but also inside, & at that time I
let it cool on its own near the fire , for otherwise, exposing
it suddenly to cold air, it would have burst. Once all white, I passed
it through my lead   wheel of
tin  , where I found it as hard as before, & uncovering a
little white, I found it a fair carnation. Finally, I polished it &
saw that it took a very beautiful polish & could be compared to a
very beautiful agate  for cutting some beautiful face on it &
bringing it on the  a table of


 
 013r
 agate  of various color. But because this total whiteness did not
respond to make this white crust on the surface that I was seeking,
leaving the rest of the thing of its natural color, I made a opening in
a brick  of the exact size of the thing & put it inside. Then
I reddened two glassmaker 's solders , & as they
were red, I presented them one after the other onto the surface of the
thing until I got the white crust that I required, on which I made such
drawing as I wanted, uncovering up to the red base with a
diamond  point , and I polished it with
hog  bristles   and tripoli  . I do
not know if it would be better to reheat it under hot ashes ,
& if it would be good to encase it in alabaster , which is
very cold, as I encased it in the brick .

Carnation from arsenic 
Sublimated arsenic , that is to say, the white one that is
sold as stone , when ground on marble  , mixed with
vermilion  or lake  or minium , makes a beautiful
flesh color that is always shiny. Yellow arsenic  has a very
beautiful color, the white one is good in oil  and agrees well
with the lake .

For dyeing 
Mix sal ammoniac  & vitriol  & boil them
together. Then mix in lake  or verdet  & azure  or
similar, & dye. This will not come off unless the animal 
sheds. @Non bona .

Polishing of stones 
Engraved tai  stones  are not polished on a
copper  wheel , but with brushes  and
tripoli  . Yet stones cut in facets and flat are polished
on the said wheel .

Fine sieves  of raw silk 
One makes tammy of raw silk  on a weaver, to make very fine
and delicate sieves . And for that effect, you must not choose
raw silk  whitened by sulfur  smoke: this renders the
silk  charged with a sticky vapor that would hold the flour and in
the end would prevent it from
 
 013v
 

passing through so well. But for this effect, choose raw silk 
yellow and natural because it is stronger and rejects flour  as
horse hair  does.

To know the good azurite ash  for oil 
The one that piles up in small clods and is lumpy is the best
because it is the most subtle. Also the one that is also very pale in
color, because oil  darkens it. Certain sophisticators 
mix them, but you will know this if you pour some onto a piece of
paper  & lay it flat & smudge it with the
finger   since, if it is mixed, it will be found
variegated & as if with pale & darker stripes, but if it is
unmixed it will be even & of one color.



Whitening of pearls 
When they have been applied in embroidery on some garment, they are
greasy & are cleaned in soapy water .



Toadstone 
The kind which comes from the head of the toad  & has
the shape of the toad , painted nature-like as you have seen, is
the most excellent. It is held that if one puts the powder of it on a
brazier  in chamber of some persons at night , they
will be neither able to move, nor speak, nor thwart thieves .



Snakes 
It is said that if one calls a snake  in Greek, saying
ΟΦΗ ΟΦΗ , it will flee. Likewise, if one nom  
calls a swine  in Greek, y  ïon , it
will come.



Candles
Candlemakers  never make good candles when the
autan  wind  blows because they always melt, however
good is the tallow  they use.



 014r
For earth  walls and rustic construction
Swallows  have taught us this craft by building their nests
out of mud  mingled with wisps  and bits of hay  or
straw  to make it bond. Therefore, in places where stones 
and bricks  are lacking, one can use earth  to make walls
thin and thick. The best for this is light earth , which does not
form clumps when plowed, or better, that which in some way mingled with
arene , because it can be most easily beaten and tamped down. It
is true that it needs to be dampened and cut into clumps with a
ditch-spade , and put and placed in this form. This one lasts
more and does not require that much effort, and dryness doesn't make it
split or crack. However, since such kinds of earth are not found
everywhere, those who live on good and fertile land, after drawing the
width and length of their foundations with a rope , drive in
long poles  and rafters  along the edges on each side to
support boards between which they throw the earth , making each
layer about one foot thick, interspersed with
S.S.S -shaped branches of heather   or
similar things, then they tamp it down and beat it with beaters of three
different forms. One is called the mall, which has a triangular form
like A, and this is used firstly to tamp down the earth . Then one
uses another made of pointed woodblocks  fitted onto a thick
stick , and this one is used to properly press the earth 
at the wall’s ends and edges where they adhere to the boards, and is
called  . The other one is called the bat and is used to flatten
and beat the earth  for the last time, as shown in C. Then one
makes another layer of earth  and heather   and
beats as has been said, and continues thus until completing the wall,
which is covered with heather   and then with
earth . Some intersperse the said wall with rows of bricks .
They also make walls with a sloped foot, adding width to the foundations
according to how high they want to build the wall. When it is old it
whitens, showing that it has saltpeter  in it. Which is why, when
they fall down, gunpowder makers  profit from them.
 
 014v

 015r
Damasked cloth 
You can damask a cloth  with two different colors and imitate
embroidery without adding anything else to it, in this way. Once it is
dyed  yellow, pounce onto it such a pattern as will please you.
Then you will baste some string  or a thicker cord  onto the
pattern and throw it into a dye  of guesde woad   or
pastel woad   & it will become green, except that
which is beneath the string , which will remain yellow because the
green dye  will not have penetrated there. And you can do thus
with other colors, and instead of cord  or string , add some
pieces of paltry cloth , cut into moresque shapes, on top of the
first color. In that manner, you will have cheap embroidery.

Casting molten metals 
One casts candlesticks and small works in a frame  with
sand. And after having imprinted the work, one sprinkles the frame with
flour  in order to make the e metal  copper  or latten  run better. When the sand has been used
for a month , it is necessary to take some new sand, because the
one that was used, having been reheated in fire + , dries out & loses its ability to bond. However,
it is used to mix with the new sand, for it makes the work not so
porous. One casts large works such as artillery, bells & similar
things in earth , & copper  cast in earth  makes
less of a chappe , and is whiter than the one cast in sand. The
earth  is sandy clay  mixed with horse  dung 
& cloth  waste. The earth  that is  has been
used for casting, which is black, baked & as if burnt, is used to
cast, gecte   mixed with artificial sand , &
is very good. To soften & make the copper  run, throw in,
once it is melted, a little lead , which does not form an alloy
but is found on the surface of the cast. 
+  by the heat of molten metal 

Casting gold  and silver 
The sand must be from something very dry & arid & reheated
well in the frame , because, if it were humid, like
founder 's sand , the gold  and silver 
would spatter, & cause damage. It is also necessary for the
earth  to absorb the metal , for cast gold  or
silver is  become very spongy. That is why it must be
beaten again, otherwise it is brittle, as one sees in spoon
handles.

 015v
Tablets
Some are made from boxwood  inlaid with ebony ,
sandalwood , ivory , or gold  and silver  like
damascening . Then one writes on it with silverpoint , and
next erases it with a cuttlefish  bone   by
rubbing them.

Making letters easier to read
One cuts the largest pieces of beryl  or crystal  round
on one side and flat on the other, then one fits it with a little handle
and puts the flat side on the letter

Stamping
If you have some bronze  medal & you want to make it very
light, make a hollow of lead  of it, then spread upon it a thin
plate of gold , or sheets of lead or annealed silver recuit  , & set your bronze  medal on top
& strike with a wooden  mallet .

Softening horn 


Those who mount acou Agnus Dei s and make circles
from horn  for certain little boxes soften the said circles by
soaking them in hot water  and then shape them on a round or
oval-shaped triblet .

Ears 
When a defluxion occurs there, one needs to be very careful not to
put anything inside, and according to the proverb, one ought only to
touch the ear  & the eye  with the elbow .
However, it is good to put on an affected ear musked
cotton , that is to say, kept in musk , for it comforts quite
thoroughly.

Tooth  ache
Some put a clove of garlic   in the ear  which
is on the side where the tooth  is hurting, & within two or
three hours  they feel well because of it. Others put in the
nostril  which is on the side of the ailing tooth  green
skin scraped from e   the small branch of
visaube   , namely the kind which is under the
grey one which resembles a small branch.

 016r
Fonte  of soft iron 
Most people consider that iron , once melted, cannot be melted
again because they only heat it in small forge s, in which it
only becomes red-hot. Alchemists  undertake to melt it with
realgar  or lead  or mixed orpiment . But without all
that, some have found a way to the  melt not only brittle
iron , such as d   the kind used for iron 
pots, but also soft iron  such as that of pigs & ingots, which
is the most difficult kind. And to this effect they make a
furnace  in this manner which has a width of one
pan   & a half & one pan  
& a half of  a depth of two pan  s. And the
tuelle , which is the barrel through  marked A through
which the bellows' pipes  enter, has to be placed in the middle
of the depth of the furnace such that there is one pan  
of the mouth of the furnace  above the tuelle  & one
pan   underneath.

Each pan   of the mouth of the square furnace 
contains one & a half quintal , & the
pan   of the round furnace  holds two
quintals .
 
The miners , to make the iron  run, put at the mouth of
the forge , two or three handfuls of wallwort  
whenthey want to make the fonte  run, and this renders the
iron  wonderfully ductile and flowy.
It is also necessary that the tuelle  enters through to the
middle of the mouth of thefurnace , which is a principal part of
the secret because the wind will hit the edge & the wall which makes
up the belly of the furnace  & by such means, it spreads
equally everywhere & above, like the flame in a reverberatory
furnace, & by such means heats much more; for if the wind were to
hit directly from above, the substance which is melted or ready to be
melted, it would cool it down & prevent it from running &
melting. It is also necessary for the bellows  to be driven by
the falling & running of water  as in forges , because
in this manner, the bellows  run with measure & compass
& with great speed, which the strength of workers  could
d  not do. Therefore one raises the wall as you see & the
furnace on the surface of the ground at the edge of which you make a
channel as with other fontes , to put the molds of that which
you want to cast & to do this, you unstop the opening that you had
made at the bottom of the furnace  to make the melted substance
run. You will be able to melt two quintals  of iron  each
time and to do this, you will choose the biggest charcoal  you can
find & put a load of it at the bottom, on the plane and surface of
the furnace & with the bottom piling up as if  to a point,
up to the top of the wall



Some make a mould of the calibre of the piece, & temper it, then
beat a soft iron  piece cut to size, & when this piece is very
red, they beat it into the mold & round it off with a large
file , considering these balls to be stronger than the melted
ones which, being britlle, are more subject to breaking.
 
 016v
 which is usually of a height of d   three
pan  s & will reheat well the . But first,
it is necessary that you have reheated your furnace with  with a little of the big charcoal , such that the
bottom is red hot and then you will put there the load of
charcoal  in the middle of which you will put your iron ,
not all at once but ten or fifteen lb. s each time. And when
this will be swallowed &  at the bottom of
thefurnace , always put in as much again. And add three or four
shovel s of new charcoal  which should be of the biggest
kind and moistened, in order that it may have more heat & and not be
consumed to soon. And when you see that your furnace  is full of
substance, around two quintal s, or less if you don't have that
much, you will leave the charcoal  to be consumed by itself. And
when the charcoal  is more or less reduced down to the level of
the furnace , you will be able to pour into molds &
iron  or metal  shells, which is even better because one
iron  attaches to the other. And it is necessary that the inside
of the mold be well covered with wetted ashes , in order that it
does not adhere to it.

Against Gonorrhea 
Soak quince  seeds  in clear water  & of
this viscous water  make an injection.

For removing fine hair from the forehead 
Take a needle’s worth  of fine silk   &
pass it tightly across the places with the hair & they will attach
to the silk  like fine cotton wisps .

Silk 
Crimson silk  is more frequent than all the other ones because
its colour is not as expensive as blue or green ones which are, also,
good bargain for the worker . Black silk  is less
frequent because it costs a lot.

Keeping oranges  
One needs to choose them quite whole, without being rotten, &put
them & fill a well closed and tin  vessel 
with them & they will keep six months  

Candles
They can be kept in some bran  which make them white and last
more, according to some. I believe, however, that it is enough to keep
them in a cool and dry place, so they are not pressed. It is better if
there is a hemp  thread inside the wick of the candle to give more
light and maintain wick straighter. If it is otherwise all cotton 
made, as those of Montauban  do, it needs to be snuffed out
often because if it has been burning for a while, cotton  falls
down and make the candle drip.

 017r
On cannon-makers 


A cannon has a range of five to six hundred paces , but for a
battery, the range is a maximum of two or three hundred paces 
to be effective. It should not be any farther. Its cannonball usually
weighs 40 lb  of the King's standard. The fowler weighs 25
quintals  and is a small, short cannon for fighting the
casemates of moats and at close range. It shoots large cannonballs that
weigh, like the others, 40 lb  of the King's standard. The
breech is two balls and a quarter thick; the mouth is one ball and a
third thick. Its load is similar to the biggest ones, that is to say 20
pounds . And if you want to try it, don't overload it, for it
would damage it. And the first time and the first five or six shots, it
is better not to load it completely, it adjusts itself. What one can do
in such a case, is to load 20 pounds  of fine arquebus
powder  instead of ordinary cannon powder . And four good
horses  are enough to carry it. They are easy to use and on a
small distance they are as strong as the big ones even for private
houses and small billattes  and less important fortresses. They
are less prone to breaking than other cannons  because they
are short. What gives strength to the powder  and increases the
danger of breaking is the length of the cannon, because the
powder  burns entirely and its force is held longer within the
longer cannon than the short one. The fowler is usually seven to eight
pans   long. It is true that this measure is a
Montpellier pan   and not a King's
pan , the latter is not used for good cannon founding. Since the
Montpellier pan   is shorter, cannons made
using this measure are shorter, but compensate in thickness the ones
made using the King's pan  , which are longer, but more
fragile. The Fowler's strength for battery is 80
pans  .


The great cannon, because of its cannonball's weight, ranges not further
than a thousand or twelve hundred paces  without landing, and
usually makes 3 jumps.


Fowlers have only a short range efficiency.


You recognize a cannon's good alloy when you see it. If there is green
color on the surface becomes red, it means they are made of a sufficient
quantity of rosette . Otherwise, the cannon's metal  will
appear whitish. If you don't see it, just scratch it and you will see
it. 


The good alloy for the cannon is three pans   of
rosette  and one of big bells' fine metal , where there is
more rosette  than in small bells' metal . This metal 
usually costs 15 pounds  and fine rosette  15 or 16.
Montpellier pan   is equivalent to six
King's inches , which is equivalent to two ordinary. 


To level a cannon properly, one needs to have the mouth as high as the
breech. Otherwise, you do not aim well.


 
 017v
 The large canon is for great batteries and usually weighs fifty five
or 60 quintal s. The breech is two cannonball and three quarters
each. The mouth is one cannonball and three quarters each. It is
thirteen or fourteen pan s  in length. But they are very
uneasy to drive. The proper battery, to be used rapidly and to have
great impact, is a hundred fifty to two hundred pace s. It is
true that a fair impact can be had from three or four hundred
pace s, but more powder  is needed. Its usual load is 20
pound s of powder ; its cannonball weighs 40
pound s, and 25 horses  are required to carry it. When
one needs a longer range than the usual one, half a
linstock   of canon powder  is added. 80 or a
hundred shots can be made with this canon per day, but it needs to be
cooled down after each nine or ten shots if the battery is continuously
used; if there are some breaks, it is not necessary to refresh it as
often. For each quintal  of copper  - or one
quintal  and a half for big cannons - a quintal  of
metal  is added. The metal  is composed of eight
pound s of tin  for each quintal  of
rosette  and even less for big bells for which we use only six
pound s of fine tin  for a quintal  of
rosette , to give it a louder voice. Because the more tin 
there is, the clearer the sound is. For canon founding, if the material
and charcoal  is provided as it is usually done because
master s cannot afford it, it costs 10 to 12 pound s
per quintal . And when the master  provides
everything, you give him 40 pound s per quintal  for big
pieces such as cannons, according to the King's ordinance. And 50
pound s for smaller pieces. For the more matter there is, the
more the master  makes profit. Another kind of 30
quintal 's fowler is founded which is longer than the others,
and usually 8 pan s  long, which is used to attack
fortifications and cassemattes  by displaying them, at night, in
groups on the moat's edge.
◯ 

Each side of the breech's opening is half a cannonball thick, plus a
third of a cannonball.
We give it two linstock   of cannon powder 
for its load, and half a linstock   of arquebus
powder  and the same for the others.
# 

The alloy of cannons from France  is made of one
quintal  of metal for two of rosette . But those of
Toulouse  and Ponce t put 3 quintal s of
rosette  for one of metal.
 The rosette  used to remelt is better than rosette  for
cauldrons, for the latter get all dirty.


The older pieces are composed of almost as much of each, that is to say
a part of rosette  and one of metal. This alloy can be recognized
with a burin  because the matter is acid and the part scraped
off with the burin  is yellow and white.
 
 018r
 

Culverines are big batteries of forty quintal s and eighteen
pan  s long. Their bullet of the King's
standard  and battery weighs 30 pound s and is therefore
lighter than the canon's one. Therefore, It does not carry so many
munitions because fifteen pound s are enough for its load. The
canon has a bigger mouth due to the size of its cannonball, but the
colverine is more precise and goes faster, having greater range due to
its length. Its breech is two bullets and a third thick, the front is a
bullet thick. Culverines are used for fighting fortifications from far
away when it is not possible to easily approach them. And then canons
come closer. They are used also to support the battery. Fifteen or
sixteen horse s are necessary to carry it. They are made of the
same metal alloy than the canon, like all others smaller pieces of
artillery . For these, we add a little bit more metal in order to
make the melting run better. And for two quintal s of
rosette , you add six unit of metal per pound for smaller pieces.
They range from 8 or 9 hundred pace s to a thousand
pace s if the powder  is strong and in the air half a
league .


Some invented loading cannons with cartouches.


Some don't fill the canon with powder  at once but twice and each
time ramming the powder  in, saying that each time you ram it, you
raise it and give an inch  more. But this is not sure for big
pieces for they are loaded with a lot of powder .


The bastarde  is a middle-sized piece of artillery 
which weighs thirty quintal s and its cannonballs weight 15
pound s and is loaded with 10 or 12 pound s of
powder . Its proportions are two cannonballs and a third part of a
third one thick at the breech and one cannonballs and three parts of two
at the front. They are used for fighting against less important defences
such as gabions or sentries, topped with a tower, or similar thing. It
is thirteen to fourteen pan  s long like the great
cannon. Ten horse s are necessary to carry it. It goes with the
culverine for shooting because it carries small munitions. 


Some make the breech three cannonballs thick and the front two
cannonballs.


The bastarde culverine  weights 35 quintal s and is 25
pan  s long. The breech is three cannonballs thick and
the front two cannonballs. Its cannonball is like the bastard one,
weighing 15 pound s. These are fixed pieces which cannot be
carried on a carriage. They are for city defences. Some make cannons
like these which are 27 or 28 pan  s long, like La
Rochelle 's vache , but such pieces are strengthened at the
breech with a width of three cannonballs. Their range is one
league  and a half. Its load is like the bastarde 's
one, and if one wants to hit horsemen  very far way, more
powder  is added. After the cannonball there is a trace of smoke
which drives your trajectory to where the cannonball is going. This is
understood for cannons and the culverine , but not for small
pieces.
 
 018v
 

The average weights 18 quintal s  and is xii
pan s  long. Its cannonball weighs eight or 9 pounds and
its load is six pounds of powder . The breech is three cannonballs
thick and the front is two. It is more appropriate against cities'
defence rather than in battery. It is however sometimes used either to
break a barricade or to support the battery after cannons have shot, in
order to prevent the assailled from rebuilding after the cannons have
played and shot. Four horses  can carry it. It has a range of
eight or nine hundreds paces  and almost as many as the
bastarde.


To cannons and big pieces we give as much powder  as a cannonball
and a half's diameter in proportion to the escusson . For medium
pieces, such as campaign pieces, and the ones smaller, we provide them
with powder the equivalent of two cannonballs have a quantity of
powder  equivalent to two cannonballs thick in proportion to the
passevolant  and smaller ones are given three cannonballs thick
of powder . Usually, all pieces are loaded up to the escusson. We
load all pieces under 4 quintal s  with the
linstock , two linstock s  of cannon powder or
one and a half lantern of arquebus powder. For smaller ones, we only use
one linstock  . The pieces of one
quintal   as loaded with a little charge.


A battlefield piece weighs ten or twelve quintal s  and
is ten or 12 pan s  long. Its cannonball weights 6 or 7
pounds and its loaded is 4 pounds of powder . The breech is three
cannonballs thick and the front is two, like all the pieces under the
mid-sized. The breech is thicker for they are in proportion longer and
also because they are more frequently used than big pieces against
houses or elsewhere. Their caliber is also small, so we give their
breech a thickness of three cannonballs. They are used to follow
immediately a camp and for the defence of cities and houses, settling
them on walls or in a tower. Three good horses  are required to
carry it.


The passevolant weighs 6 quintal s  and is eight or nine
pan s  long. Its cannonball weighs two pounds, and its
load is a pound and a half of powder . The breech is three
cannonballs thick and the front two. Two horses  can carry it
because one single horse can't carry a piece. It is used for houses'
defence or to be brought amongst the infantry to break a horsemen
rank.


A faulconneau  weighs 4 quintal s  and is 10
pan s  long. Its cannonball weighs a pound and a
quarter, its load is half a pound of powder . The breech is three
cannonballs thick and the front two. To carry it, two horses ,
altough these pieces are seldom moved since they are manly used to
defend houses. The ones which are carried over for battery or a fight,
or a siege, are culverines, medium-sized bastardes and pieces
 
 019r
 

of campaign. Faulconneau  is to commonly loaded with a
linstock . There are also some other faulconneaux 
weighing three quintal s , and which are nine
pan s  long. Their cannonball weighs half a pound. Their
load is a quarter pound of powder . They can be loaded with a
linstock , but more commonly they are loaded with a charge. The
breech is three cannonballs thick and the front two. The small pieces
which are under three quintal s  are at least three
cannonballs and a twelfth of a cannonball thick at the breech, and the
front thickness is sometimes reduced to get the proportion according to
the length.


The strength of the piece is at the level of the tourillon ,
where the lighted powder  starts.


The strength of the berche  is at the maslée , behind
the breech.




A double musket weighs 2 quintal s  and is seven
pan s  long. Its cannonball is a quarter of a pound or
less. The breech is three cannonballs thick, and the front two. It is
loaded with as much powder  as cannonballs, to the top of the
touch line, which is equivalent for such small pieces to 3 or 4 arquebus
powder  cannonballs, because if canon powder  is used, it
can be loaded five cannonballs high.


This has to be understood as iron  cannonballs. When a metal
cannonball is fired, we overload it with a quarter of
linstock   because if a cannonball weighs 40 pounds, a
metal one weights 60 pounds. This is why the sight is higher when a
metal cannonball is fired. Because if an iron  cannonball is fired
directly, a metal cannonball is shot from six lines higher. A metal
cannonball, mixed with copper  to make it more brittle, is more
effective at close range than the iron  one. But an iron 
one is more effective at long range. 


A simple musket weighs one quintal   and is six
pan s  long. We disregard the ones that are less than
two quintal s , and which usually throw lead cannonballs
by its weight, and concentrate on those  which are loaded by
caliber. However, those muskets  that can be loaded with metal or
iron  cannonballs will work better, for they will do more damage
than the lead ones . It is loaded up to the touch line, which is 4
cannonballs thick. 


Arquebus à croc weighs 60 pounds, the bigger one is five
panel s  long, it is loaded up to the touch line, which
is 4 cannonballs thick; it is loaded with lead  cannonballs, and
is for house's defence. These great and small arquebuses are used for to
make orgues , appropriate for an assault outside and inside.They
are casted separately in order to be used in various ways. See the 4th
leaf marked.

 

 019v


Mathematical figures without ruler  or compass 


You know how to draw a circle correctly with the quill  & or
else with the nail of your right thumb   & the bent
big finger  . If you do not have a ruler , fold
paper  in two five or six times to use it. And if you want to draw
a column, arch, oval, escutcheon correctly  without a
compass , fold your paper  such that the fold
e   gives you a straight line, at the required
distance  from which, trace a point & a  or a line
& saturate it well with ink . Then fold again the paper 
& rub it on the back & it will stamp however much you have made.
In that way la l  , A is the line without ink 
which the paper  fold gives you, B is the line you have traced, C
is the one which is stamped.

    

P   For writing as well from the
left as from the right


Write as best you can with well-gummed ink  on as many little
cards  as you want    to write words. & once
each letter is well saturated with ink , put it down on your
paper  & rub with a tooth  the back of the
card .

Enemas


One used to give them with leather  sleeves or bags ,
which for the best result is  must be of cat 
skin  which is more mitten-like than any other. And then one would
start to fold back the sleeve  on one side & one would
continue to fold it back & twist it around itself & in that way
the enema would run gently. But this manner takes longer & is less
convenient than the syringe  which has been discovered since,
with which a single man easily gives himself an enema. It is true that
it always causes wind at the end.

 020r
@For making millas 
You must have some millet  soaked in order to remove the
chaff  and then clean it well. Next you must grind  it
again quite finely and pass through a cloth sieve . One must
soak the flour  with fresh melted butter  and some
milk  so that it is very light, like the pastry  to make
beignets , and add egg yolk  depending on the amount of
flour , so that there are two egg yolks  for each
millas . Then you will put in some saffron   if you
want to give them a little colour.
Afterwards you must have some mold s, which must be made
from terracotta  , in the shape of the bottom of the
catholic hat, but it must be open at both ends. And then, having made a
good fire, clean where you want to put your millas  and then take
your mold s and grease them very well so that the pastry 
does not stick to them when baked. Once you have done that, put your
mold s in a place in the oven  where you clean and
sprinkle a bit of flour  on the bottom and fill them with some of
the aforementioned pastry . Then you will cover the said
mold s, with a lid  made like the mold , but it
must be bigger and not open at the top. Then once done, you will put
some straw  on the said lid  and a lot of hot
charcoal , and set a fire around it, once done, you will open up
one of them after a bit of time and will see when it is baked, it will
be hard.

@Glazier 
Glass from Lorraine   is smoother & more even than
plate glass  and it is sturdier & more durable. But commonly
it is stained by veins, in straight lines as if tanned, which happens
because the glassmakers , having made it, put it when totally
hot on straw  , which stains it in this way. However, this
is removed with varnish  & salt  & other
drugs  that the glaziers  put in. Glass from
Lorraine   is sold by lien   & each
lien   is composed of three tablets . The
lien   costs usually x sous  . Plate
glass sold in  is made in France , it is whiter
& clearer, but alternately it is not so durable as that from
Lorraine . It is also commonly blown & in that case, it is
better to make little diamonds rather than large square pieces in the
shape of the frame, because they are not able to seat themselves very
evenly.
Plate glass  is sold by paniers  . Every
panier   contains 24 plates  that are commonly
sold at x or twelve lb .

 020v
To whiten the face 
Pestle puffball   in cistern water , & no
other, & wash with this whitened water . This is considered
quite exquisit. And I believe that making it from wheat 
starch  & to use it would be even better.

Against the winds, colic, &c.
Sap squeezed or water    distilled from
orange  peel  is excellent against the windy colic.
Candied peel , too, is excellent for the winds of the
stomach . And to make a trial of it, having poured foaming
wine  in a glass  , squeeze orange 
juice  on the wine foam , which proceeds only from vapor &
wind, and you will see that the foam will immediately disappear. Also,
if you squeeze juice  against a candle  it will burn all
the brighter.



Skirret  root
They want to be planted in a very humid place where with such
puys rodier  or fountain one can water it often , for by
this method they are tender. Otherwise they make a hard heart inside,
which takes from it all its goodness.



Against burn
Pestle an onion   with verjuice  & leave it
to soak like this, then apply it.

Or else, apply black soap  on the burn. Experimented.



A common saying
Steeple of Rodez , church of Albi , bells of
Mende . However, the bell of Toulouse  named Cardaillac
is held to be one of the most beautiful in France , all the more
since it weighs two hundred and fifty quintal  s.



A form of regimen
Every morning , take two or three eggs  laid one or
two days  ago. Heat them until  & do not cook
them. Take the yolks  well dusted with sugar . And next
drink one finger   of wine . And apart from being
nourishing, it makes a good stomach .



 021r
Cannoneer 
As for small cannons that are not loaded with a linstock, one loads
them with powder  all the way up to the touch hole, which is
placed at a point on the cannon that indicates the appropriate
measure.
To point a cannon, that is to say to fix the target, one needs to
set the sights, in other words, take aim, from the sides rather than the
top, that is to say the top of the cannon. By taking aim from the top,
you can find the line of fire that leads to your target, but you will
not find out if the cannon leans more to one side or the other. Then
take your sights first from one side and then from the other and adjust
your cannon to point at your intended target. Then set your sights from
the top of the breech, which will be quickly done. Next, use your
discretion to lower the cannon a little if you are within firing range,
because the force of the powder  blast usually raises the barrel.
If you are outside of the range in which the cannon can fire in a direct
line, you should consider that the weight of the cannonball will lower
the barrel.

Shooting a cannon at night
Some keep their cannons loaded and in the daylight hours.
Then, so that the cannoneer  can shoot into the breach where
the besieged are perhaps reparing the breach , the assailants
raise a false alarm so that the besieged throw torches or artificial
fire  into the moats or around the breach, light by which the
cannoneer  can take aim. Sometimes by using the reflection off
mirrors  or jars  full of water , the assailants
can redirect the light onto the breach. The method that you know, using
a sundial and lead  line, is also very good. Others use strong
iron  pegs to fix two or three planks onto a platform of
wood  made to carry a battery of cannon, and leave some notches
empty where the cannon wheels can pass perfectly. And with this method
you will always put the cannon in such a position so that it doesn't
tilt to the right or the left. And so that it isn't too high or low when
you fire the following day, you place a marker that is well fixed in the
ground, that just touches the bottom edge of the canon after it has been
aimed and adjusted for firing.
If the platform, the wheels or wedge
parts break or come loose, this invention holds no advantage.
 
 021v
 Others place two well-staked poles into the earth in such a way that
the one is as far from the edge of the cannon's mouth as the other. And
underneath they place the above-mentioned ruler. Then when want to fire
the cannon at night, they push their cannon straight towards the
above-mentioned ruler and make it so that the edge of the mouth rests on
the end of the aforesaid ruler. Next, they measure with a ruler, or a
similar tool with measured intervals, from one pole to the side of the
cannon and if it is too close or too far, they adjust the canon and make
it the same distance as from the other pole.

Unspiking your cannon
Some people say that one should remove the cannonball if the cannon
is loaded and introduce fire into the mouth of the cannon. But it is
probable that the fire will leave again through the mouth rather than
seek its exit through the touch hole which is spiked and restricted. The
most reliable way is that the cannoneer , who is often a
founder , drive in a nail  and turn back the point of
the nail  that the enemies placed therein, and with a
trephine , make another touch hole at the side of the spiked
one, which can be done in an hour. And if with time the violence of the
powder  loosens the nail  that the cannon was spiked with,
you will make a nut in the second touchhole and place a screw  in
it, so perfectly that it will never come undone.

Defense of a town
There is nothing more efficient for defending a breach than mortars
placed at the front line, as soon as the initial assault. They carry a
lot of ammunition and are filled with cart nails , big
steel  dice, bits of chains  and similar items. And when one
senses that the enemy is close, one lights everything on fire. Grenades,
well-constructed and thrown at the right moment, also cause much damage.
And to make them worse, one can add some roughly crushed glass ,
either in the mold or in the crucible, when one casts them. This worsens
the wounds. The grenades must not be too brittle, but it is good that
they be somewhat alloyed with the material of the grenade so that
instead of breaking up, they resist shock better and inflict more
violence.

 022r
The one depicted is a bit too big, see the following
one. Cannon ball, weighing 40 lb  and being 12
lignes pied de roy   long.   
 022v
 Orgues
Then they are affustés on a rather thick board close to each other
and notches are made onto the board this way
 .

And through these notches is fit the harquebus’s hook which has a hole
through which we pass, from under, iron  pegs. When you want to
aim, you affuste the middle and side ones. If you want to make double,
triple or four ranks or more, you have to put similar board rank one on
the other, like the first one. This manner of making an orgue fait faute
@ and makes it very stable. Because the other ones made of one massive
and solid piece have cannons of only one and a half pan long. They
therefore are used only for a salvo at an entrance or to protect a
gate.


A small hooked harquebus a-crocke weighs 40 pounds  and is 4
pans   long, and is to be loaded to the touch hole, its
breech is three cannonballs thick, its front two.


The double cannon is nothing different from the big ordinary cannon,
apart from the fact that its cannonball has one line  of
thickness - or of diametre - more. A line  is a twelfth
part  of a cannonball. At the breech, it has a thickess of one
line  more than the cannon, and the mouth is half a
line  thicker. Its load is six or seven lbs  of
powder , more than a cannon, that is to say of two big linstocks.
Its cannonball weighs 56 lb . Thirty horses  are
necessary to carry it. It weakens the walls more than a cannon. But it
is very uneasy to drive. This is why it is unused today and is more
appropriate to be brought to a nearby place for close combat or for a
ceremonial  entry, rather than for an ordinary execution. They are
called basilics, and they are unmovable pieces.

 023r
A mortar is made so that it weighs three quintals  and
carries a cannonball flat on the side from which it must exit and round
on the side of the cannon, as if it was a cannonball cut in half. It is
two pans long. It has to be loaded with xxv lb  of powder
because it has to be full to the opening and has to fire. Its bottom is
not thicker than the opening and is made of one single piece. Its
material has to be better than other artillery pieces, and for 4
quintals  of fine copper  there must only be one quintal
of metal  so that it absorbs the shock, and so that, when fired
with more force, it is more efficient. It has to be used against a door
with a large iron  cross before the bullet, and once loaded, needs
to be covered with a firmly sewed rough canvas  which should be
completely smeared with turpentine . Four handles need to be added
to it while it is cast, it is thus easier to place. The iron 
cross is fixed to the opening with the canvas  covering it. The
handles have to be held at its opening's edge, as you can see. To place
it, you need three or four iron pegs  of one
pan   long and as thick as a finger  ,
which have their point like a gimlet , and their body like a
screw as they are strongly pulled, and a ring on the other side to turn
them with a short stick  that fits into the ring . And
the pegs  are fixed on the door, not straight, because they
would not have any strength, but crooked as if you wanted to fix them
towards the middle of the mortar , and to do the holes of the
handles need to be quite large. In that way, the shooting mortar 
pushes the pegs  back and forth into the door, and makes more
damage. Once in place, you need to have saucisse de
buckram   @ made in this manner: take eight or nine
canes   of buckram   selvage or more if
the gap is larger, which have to be as large as four or five
fingers  , have it sewn in such a way so that it is like
an intestine where a stick  as thick as a
finger   can fit. Fill it completely with good


This one is to be put below an undermined tower with its opening towards
the top. One casts two large iron rings  and, with a
stick  or two, four men carry it. They are also used for placing
within wall breaches but just half a charge is necessary, that is x
lb , and fill the rest with some pebbles  and cart
stones 
.

 

It needs to be covered entirely with a waxed canvas  and
rubbed with turpentine  and other combustible things . This
cover is made to ensure that the bullet does not fall and so that, when
the cover is given fire, the powder  does not fail. Upon the fuse,
you will need to put a good quantity of powder . Some put on the
ball a cross of iron  which is longer than the mouth of the
mortar  by two pans  . Others only put the
ball.
 
 023v
  powder . When the sausage is filled, dip it gently in two
parts vinegar  and one of spirits , to moisten the
canvas  but not the powder . Next, leave the aforesaid
canvas  to dry completely, and then you need to attach to the
sausage a long string  or cord twice as long as the
sausage , but you must not tie it to the sausage but make it touch
the two ends and sew it to the sausage in a few places in the middle.
Next you need to smear all of the sausage with very good
turpentine , and at one end, where you will want to join to the
mortar 's fuse for firing, you can sew or tightly attach with a
selvage of canvas  as large as one empan   which
should also be well soaked in turpentine , and this selvage should
be cut in the middle so that it can be fastened and wrapped around the
mortar , and you must attach it so that the tip of the sausage
that is open will be joined to the fuse of the mortar . Then you
need to place a lot of tightly-packed powder  onto the fuse of the
mortar . And next, the person outside of the ditch should draw the
small string  and cord  that is joined to the sausage so
that it is extended mid-way, but not so much that it is detached. And if
there is water  in the ditch, it will be necessary to support the
sausage with a fork. Then, having placed himself and others in safety,
the person who holds the tip of the sausage will be able to fire.

Mortars  that one wants to fix on doors or iron  gates
are sufficient if they weigh 40 or 50 lb . For the rest, for its
charge, cannonball, and process, you need to do all just as was already
said before concerning the one of 3 quintals  . One man
can carry it.

The cannonball needs to be be round on one side and flat on the
other like a half  of a cut cannonball. The cross also needs to
stick to the ball - the latter melting if it is made with metal  -
and is enveloped in the middle of the cross.

 024r
Grenades
Grenades should be made from the finest metal you can find, for
there is fine metal and rough metal. Fine metal is that of big bells,
because one puts in more copper  to give them a bigger voice, and
for small bells one puts more tin  to give them a clearer sound.
The metal of big bells is made with 3 quintals of rosette  and
twenty or xxv lb. of tin . Each grenade should weigh four to six
lb. In order to throw them, they must be full of powder mixed with
coarsely pounded glass. And in a quarter lb. of powder, one must put
half an ounce of glass, so that on the face or places where the powder
will have an effect, the wounds will be worse. The best harquebus powder
is required. The hole needs to be as large as the thickness of a swan's
feather, and there is no need to make it into a screw, it is enough to
make it even. Then you make a pipe of well soldered fer blanc ,
which can enter into the hole up to the middle of the grenade and which
juts out the width of one finger. You will fill it with good powder,
pounded in a mortar and lightly tempered with good spirits  or
strong vinegar . One does so in order to slow down the powder. And
in order to know if it will be slow enough to allow time to throw the
grenade without danger, try this powder thus tempered in another pipe.
You can keep your loaded grenades in a very dry place, and on the
contrary you should keep your pipes filled with that tempered powder
tight together in a humid place. And nonetheless, you should have some
already inserted into grenades, so that you are always equipped. And
every 3 days you will change them if you notice they have become too
dry. To throw your grenade, take it firmly in one hand and with the
other hand light your pipe with a wick, and throw it swiftly amidst the
troops. The grenade should have twice the thickness of a knife
spine.


 024v
To bring a canon over land 


It requires a hundred roadworkers  or more to even gap tracks
and others obstacles such as trees , stone  piles and
similar things to make gabions on the road. Once one is close to the
battlefield, the gunner  goes at night to locate the most
convenient place to display the battery and if he does find one, a false
alarm should be raised so the ones inside throw torches. Very often,

you shoot as strong as possible so the assailed despising the battery do
not fix it. Usually, there are not many gun-turrets or other defenses.
And when a breach is made at the strongest and the cannon replaced, it
will surprise the assailed. One should approach fortified towns at
night, but  . The workers bring gabions and once these are
displayed, some boards or plank are put behind gabions to keep the
workers safe while behind, they fill the gabions with some earth 
by means of their shovels. And while this is being performed, another
false alarm is raised from another side. And once you have shot a cannon
ball at the defense, the gabions the workers  display the
boards to make a plain ground or a platform of four fingers or half a
foot thick. And they are set into the earth . The platform is five
or six feet larger than the cannon's wheels on each side if there is
just one cannon. But if there are more, platformes are side by side. The
space between the pieces is equivalent to the width of two gabions. As
long as the battery lasts, gunner s sleep and eat close to a
cannon. In small spaces, one does not bother to dig trenches to reach
the pieces but display many high gabions and run towards them. In large
places one digs trenches. There are always in trenches or behind
barricades units on guard duty to defend the pieces. A small
powder  container is kept containing three or four separate
cags.


You have to know the French containers for the artillery.


It is good if the platform is slightly oriented upwards because the
piece is more quickly put in action & tient plus coup  and
hits harder.
 
Lined cannons are those with a lining in the powder
container space. The bullet rolls only up to the opening of this
chamber. These ones are not so efficient and are not easy to load but
they do not light up so quickly.

Steel  touch-hole is to be put as an anchor in the
canons so it will not be damaged during the shooting unlike the others
very quickly did. But these anchors are prone to jump off and injure the
canonner. The only thing is to use an appropriate touch-hole.

A touch-hole at the bottom level is the best. That way the
cannon does not come backwards.

 025r
 a hundred feet away from the battery and should be surrounded with
barricades or trenches. And this is where they go and get powder 
in bags or baskets. And each piece has its own basket to it three or
four times. Then, when the cannon is placed on the platform, one puts an
arquebus bulletproof board between two gabions. Then, with a lantern, a
gunner  reloads it, and with the ramer which is at the other
end of the lantern, two men press as hard as they can, nine of ten
pushes, until the powder  is dense Then another one adds some
hay  or straw  and the others ram for a while. Another one
loads the cannon ball. And the one with the hay  adds the same
amount and presses again. Another one adds a wood  hung but this
might damage the piece. And if one has to shoot a lot, one would need
many hungs which are heavy to bring. When the cannon is loaded, xx or
xxv workers  push it forward with the sticks by the side,
behind the gabions without taking off the board until the cannon reaches
it. Once the cannon is forward, the gunner  adjusts it with
the hooks at the back, pointing at the target on each side and then in
the middle.Then another one nearby sets fire. Each gunner 
needs 3 cannoners : one to load, one to point at the target
and one to set fire. Sometimes, against a camp where breaches are made,
one shoots a cartridges, as you find elsewhere, or one may use a basket
full of stones , cars' nails  or similar things. A cannon
must not be carried unless it is with two wood  or iron 
carriages. And you need seven quintals and a half of iron  to fill
the cannon's wheels, flasques and other equipage. The best battery is,
according to some people, made as a curtain which sideways, because by
doing so you unsettle more stones.
---------------------------------------- 

Some add small wheels to a piece and a thick board to the end of the
piece so it can be moved quicker and without noise. Others add some
leather around the wheels and also add soles or leather shoes to the
horses' hooves so they cannot be heard.

 025v
Gunner
There are three rings on a cannon, one at the breech, one in the
middle, one at the mouth. When founders want to work on their piece or
have a cannon or another lighter piece and easier to carry, they make it
from the breech ring to the middle one in the same size and proportions
as the bullets described below. But they taper it more or less one line
on each side from the middle ring to the mouth ring, always using a
compass for their measures from the straight line which they draw in the
modelle en papier    whatever pattern. And this
reduction is consequently equivalent to seven or eight quintals 
less. And this does not make the piece less secure. This is done for big
pieces, but for pieces smaller than the mid-one, one has to keep the
aforesaid proportion and make the piece in one straight line from one
end to the other. Usually the trunnions are situated one foot away from
the middle ring in the direction of the breech.

But since some gunners prefer a piece heavier at the front for it is
easier to adjust and for that purpose, it is sufficient to place the
trunnions closer to the breech and further away from the middle. On the
contrary if you want to make it heavier at the bottom, you will place
the trunnions

closer to the middle of the piece or forward in direction of the mouth.
When you drill your piece make a fluted cast iron  bar like a bed
poster and and there must be sixteen flutes or notches in which you will
fix sixteen well-even blades, so altogether they will cut and scrape
similarly. Because should some not cut or scrape, there would be some
waves and spaces in the cannon which would be bent and the piece might
break in its middle. In order to avoid this the drill has to go evenly
from the breech to the mouth and the piece's mouth must be evenly hard
so the powder  will be released at once with more strength. On the
contrary, if it is blocked it goes sideways and makes the piece
break.

 026r
This is the right measure of the caliber, but the drill always rubs
a bit more off. 
Cannon ball   
Mortar
They are better when shaped as the crucible with a narrow bottom and
a larger mouth. You have to strongly crush the powder and add either
some sand or some cork  or even better a pure pierced wax
plate  because it seals well up and is more efficient. A bullet just
makes a hole, the powder  only is more efficient. One knows that
they are stronger when kept in a dry place for fifteen days.
  
 026v
 Culuerin bullet    
 027r
Cannonball of a bastarde cannon  Medium-sized cannonball  Cannonball of a campaign artillery piece  
 027v
falcon  Four quintals falcon or passevolant  reach 8
pans   3 quintals falcon  reach as long as 9
pans   2 quintals reach a cane  which is 8 pans  in
Montpellier   1 quintal reach six pans  and a half  1 quintal and a half reach 7 pans  and a half  A 60 lb musket reaches 5 pans  and a half or
6  5 quintals reach eleven pans  and a half  
 028r
The measures of the calibers of pieces


The numbers and dots show how many quintals  a piece marked with
that caliber weighs.   
 028v
Pewterers 
They deem the best tin  is the one that comes in
saulmons , which has not been remelted since it came from the
mine , because the masters remelt it a  in
grilles  , weighing two or three lb , to easily
cut it up and sell it by the piece. And in this they often mix in
leftovers from plates , soldering  & common tin .
And to recognise the best one, it is the most lustrous, which looks
burnished, because it is the softest. Sometimes in their
saulmons  they find pieces of iron , stones, & similar
things mixed in, to cheat on the weight. The tin from
England   is so hard that the miners  put in
lead  to soften it. The one that comes by way of Germany 
is softer. Usually, the sworn master pewterers , from
bonnes villes  , add six lb  of fine
lead on  or eight on a quintal  of fine
tin . The others, who work in the countryside  ,
put fifteen or 20 or as much as they can, and to cover up the blackness
of the lead they  and its softness, they put in
looking-glass tin , 4 lb  per quintal ,
+ , po   which whitens & hardens,
and a little  six or eight lb  of rosette  on a
quintal to render the plate sonorous . 


To mold platters & dishes, they make them out of pierre
porte   morte  , that is from
grais  , & they shape &polish around 
them on the wheel . They melt their tin  in an
dest  iron  posnet  on a
charcoal  fire, and with an iron  spoon  that holds
almost  a sufficient quantity for a platter, they cast
leu   in their cold molds , which they keep
joined & tight between their knees . And soon after, they
open the molds  so that they do not heat up, & having taken
out the cast which is on the female side, & which breaks easily.
Then, with a cloth  which soaks in water , which they
always have beside them, they rub the middle of the back of the dish
& around the edge, so that it comes out better, and they rub the
female mold.
+ 

When the tin is fine , one adds less glass-looking tin ,
namely 4 lb  per quintal , but if the tin is low
quality , that is to say allied with a lot of lead , one puts
at least five or six lb  of looking-glass tin  to it.


If there is not a lot of looking-glass tin , one puts about two or
three lb  per quintal . One puts eight lb  of
rosette . But if there is a lot of looking-glass tin one , like 4 or 5 lb , one only puts six of
rosette . And commonly, per quintal  of tin , one
adds x lb  of both.



Go to the fifth folio

 029r
Stucco  for molding
Take tragacanth gum  and put it to soak until, having drunk
its water , it is swollen & rendered like jelly . Then
crush it quite hard on the marble   & next take
rye  flour , which is better than wheat  
because it is more humid and does not make the paste as brittle, and
sprinkle your tragacanth gum  with it, & continue to grind
and mix in  thus, little by little, le et mesler
legi   the very finely sieved flour . And knead it as if
you wanted to make bread , until you  you perceive that
it has enough body & is as firm as bread dough  that one is
ready to put in the oven . This is perceivable when it can
stretch enough without breaking. And if it was not strong enough, it
would not sti   release well. Thus once prepared, rub
the cavity au u   with oil , with a
brush , so that the oil  penetrates everywhere to make it
release better, and press the paste inside quite hard. And if it does
not release well, mix in more flour  until it has enough body.
With this you will mold whatever work you like, masks or garlands, which
will be dry within one day . Next, you will apply them with
strong glue  or paste glue , as you like, and you will be
able to paint and decorate them with gold  & all colors. In
Rome  they make ceiling and wall ornaments with it. One can make
bed ornaments with it. If you want that the work stays white ,
it is better to mold with plaster  instead of flour . It is
true that it is more brittle and firm as well, but one needs to prepare
it like this: temper it, when it is powdered strong , in a
good amount of water  so that it is clear , & grind
it several times a day for fifteen days . Then pour off the
water  by tilting, and gather the plaster  & grind it
finely on the marble  , & place it in some kind of
clean lead  vessel , so that no dust & dirt falls into
it, & leave it in the open air  & au
serain   for fifteen days  with its water , and
it will become matte, strong, white and light, very suitable for making
a groundlayer for burnished gold . And this, in powder form, you
can mix, instead of flour , with tragacanth gum , and your
work will be very beautiful. Lacking plaster , you can mix in well
ground chalk  or ceruse , & try bole  &
similar things. This stucco  with the tragacanth gum  has
the quality, being malleable before being dry, of fitting on either
round or flat things, as you like. It is to make an ornament at little
expense.


Flour  is not good in this, but chalk  or ceruse  is.



 029v
Color of gold without gold  on silver 
Color your applied silver leaf  with terre
emerita  , and once dry, give a coat of spike
lavender  oil varnish  and of sandarac . And it will be
more beautiful than tinsel .

Layer of burnished gold  on paper 
Make your ground layer of starch  soaked in water  &
your gold  will burnish very well. Clear starch water 
layered on the paper , then dried, & repeated in this manner 3
times, is a good layer for burnished gold  on simple paper 
& has no body.

Removing stains
A good eau de vie  takes it off if you rub your cloth 
with it.

Ground layer of gold 
Ground terra emerita   with some saffron , all
of it mixed with very clear colle forte   & passed
through a linen  cloth .

Extraction of oils 
Apothecaries  say that anything with does not adhere to
the mortar  while being ground is oleaginous.

Dragon 's blood 
Take a well chosen tear of it which shows off its transparent red.
And in a glass  bottle  put the best eau de
vie   you can find, in sufficient quantity . For
it  And stopper it well and so quickly that it does not evanesce,
otherwise it would be worth nothing. And leave it thus for a
long time  , because the longer it stays there , the
more beautiful & better it will be & it will dissolve if it is
good, otherwise it will become like lees . When you want to use
it, make a small hole in the stopper of the bottle  & pour a
little & stopper it again each time, then apply it on
gold .
The good kind of dragon 's blood  can be found in
large pieces like torteau this one has no value and is
adulterated  & once broken it shows on its edges scales,
transparent as ro  rouge clair 
enamel , it is also lumpy in some parts like small rubies . The
eau de vie   needs to be very ardent & passed several
times.


The darker dragon 's blood  is the best & has more of
a tint; the tear is found in gr   pieces like
peas   and large hazelnuts   which look like

 


I put it in common eau de vie  , mixing in some
aqua fortis   to give it strength. At the beginning the
water  took on a slight tint, but at the end there was only an
appearance of tragacanth gum  with which I think they adulterate
the dragon 's blood .


When it is applied on burnished gold , it is prone to break. For
this reason, some coat it with turpentine varnish . Cold delays
the action of the water  and the extraction of the color. And for
this reason, you can keep it by the fire.

 030r
Lead 
The best, fattest & softest is brought from Germany  and
is not in saulmon , but in lattes , of around an
arm   long & three fingers   wide.
It is transported to Lyon , and from this, the leaf is made for
small mirrors in Nuremberg .

Pewterer 
They also make their molds  out of metal  which last
longer & mold more cleanly than grais  , because the
vessel comes out without fins & smooth. But this is for the
rich  because a mold  costs fifteen or sixteen
frans . They are mainly made of metal , for basins &
ewers & salt cellars & similar things which are fashioned.
For pints, molds  are made with white clay  mixed with
horse  dung  & cloth waste  & well beaten,
because the pints, being deep half-circles, would not easily release
from the grais   mould , unlike the earth 
ones, which are soft. One makes the noyau  of the mold 
of the said pints in grais .
In metal molds , one makes vents and casts all at once,
which is the cause that in the middle of the dish, no smoky black line
which comes from the vapor & smoke of the metal  that is cast,
which is the cause that in that spot, the work is lumpy & very often
pierced. However they repair it with soldering du
n  , as is said. This smoke is made right in the middle of the
cast, & in  molds of grais   .
The vessel can be hammered mar   to make
it more vendable. But it will not last as long.
Depending on the size of their dishes & plates, they have
notches on the spoke of their iron  wheels . And when they
want to apply
 
 030v
 any dish or plate, they loosen & undo with the strike of a
hammer  the iron  wedges that slide along the spokes of
the wheel . And, when they are at the notch and points that they
need, they tighten the said wedges, striking them with the
hammer .
When their plates or dishes have been cast, soldered if needed,
& recleansed of surrounding froth with the hot soldering
iron  & then with a big file , they adapt it on the
wheel  & first of all they wrap their
desgrusoue   desgrusouer  
with a rope , as thick rope    as
the little finger  , & lean it firmly on the
crossbar  to secure it well. And while someone else promptly
turns the wheel , they guide the sharp edge of the
esgrusouer   by hand  s   towards the edge of the round cavity, & gently
guide it to the center of the circle. And this
desgrusouer   is for removing the first rough &
lumpy skins of the work. And next they even it out with a cutting
iron   called a plane  , on which they rub the
sharp edge with a little putty , on leather nailed 
onto a piece of wood having , and this, in such a way
that the flesh or grain is on the outside, for if the sharp edge of this
plane   was not thus rubbed & burnished, it would
not polish & not burnish the tin ,
au   which would stay white, & not black &
polished like a mirror. Moreover, they repair the work for the second
time with this plane   as they did with the
esgrusouer  . Then, with a knife  or another
sharp iron  , they scrape the edges of the plates or
dishes to smooth them so that they are not found sharp when handled
 
 031r
 Their hammers  must be quite even & polished, and if in
some unfortunate case the rust, the  or some other use, has
damaged them, they first polish them with emery stone powder ,
then they finish burnishing & smoothing with the putty .
Otherwise they would not strike neatly. It is also necessary that the
face of the anvils  be the same.

New vine 
Being well taken, if you want it to grow strong branches, having
plowed it, put at each foot two handfuls  of pigeon 
dung .

Colored waters
Distilled urine , distilled vinegar  and
eau-de-vie  take on a blue and green color from pulverized and
finely ground aes ustum  . And this colored water is
red copper  in its residue if you distil the aforesaid things
through a filter.

Varnish  resistant to water 
Flanders  varnish , made with turpentine  &
oil  from this or from mastic , can come off and does not
hold up in the rain . But that made with huile de noix
blanche  , as you have done, holds in the rain  and is
very clear & beautiful & dries soon. This is why one uses this
one for painted banners & signs that one carries in the
rain .

Fruit made from sugar 
One does not paint them with a pinceau   like other
s   things with moistened color, because the
sugar  would melt. But one rubs them with color with the
finger  .

 031v
Painter 
Scribes  achieve darkening of lake  & other
colors for garments with egg yolk , but this is a delusion and
does not last.
Others glaze rouges de mine  & others which are not
beautiful in oil M  using glair of the
egg , and it appears to be done in oil . But
humidity  corrupts all this.

Broisses  
Take those that have been used a little by white-limers ,
for the harshness of the quick-lime  & use make them easier to
handle.

Painting after nature
One ought not to undertake to work on it in overcast
weather  because you would make your flesh tones browner than they
ought to be.

Paindre d’aprest 
For blue, they take the roughest azure d'email  & grind it
on shale  , & mix in two or three rosary
beads ' worth of roquaille   or more, according to the
quantity of the work. And having done their drawing with noir
d’escaille   (which is painted towards the light with the piece
of glass  upright), they lay all their pieces on white
paper when  for knowing by the whiteness of the
paper  the lighting of their histories and as  
set down all colors which are of one kind all in one go. Then they heat
it up.

 032r
The body of the cuirass
The high lames of the spaulder in a vambrace @ are like a master's
chef d'œuvre, because these pieces have to be very precisely hollowed
and adjusted so that movement may be free. The bodies of cuirasses must
be very evenly beaten and worked with a hammer.
Morions from Milan  are all in one piece and thus better
than which are of two.

Painter 
As soon as the colors of panels are well dried, the Flemish 
varnish them so they do not die any further & remain in that
state.
The one who knows to work well in distemper  will work well in
oil . But, on the contrary, the one who knows how to work well in
oil  will not work in distemper .

For layering gold  in distemper
Common painters  & scribes  make
batture , which is joiner 's glue  tempered with
water  on the fire, moderately clear, mixed with very little
honey , that is to say a few drops  to make it stick, and
with it they they form letters, or that which they want to gild ,
with a pinceau  , and immediately after layer the
gold , but they never do their work quite neatly, and if there is
a lot of honey  it dries only with great difficulty. This layer is
undone in the rain .
Others do better, they temper candy sugar  in water  and
mix it with sanguine  that they call cocon  ,
thoroughly ground, adding a little soap . This is done neatly,
& renders gold  beautiful if one uses it as the ground
layer.

 032v
Mat makers 
Two kinds are made in Toulouse , one to cover rooms' walls
which are finely woven, almost like straw  hats worn by villagers,
and are made in long rolls, some 10 straws  wide, others 13. And
they work on them mainly in summer and winter. Then when they prepare it
they sew it, but beforehand they dye it in usually three colours: green,
red and sometimes purple. The green one is made with only a pastel
tincture  since green is made from yellow and blue, so the
pastel  dyes the dark yellow straw . It becomes bright
green. For red they use some alum  and brazil wood , for
purple they use pastel  and some coperous  which darkens
blue with its black tincture.

Glassmakers 
They have no way to produce a perfect red that needs to be annealed.
Try, however, the German  red   which is scaled
red. They produce their ordinary red with some sanguine , iced
pewter , lead rocks , & some iron file dust . This
red is to be applied on both sides of the glass  because it is
more colourful. If it were applied on one side only it would look pastel
orange.

Founder 
They pay xx lb  for a quintal  of rosette ,
which is harder to melt than latten  because it is softer. For,
the softer the great  metals #   are, the soft  harder they are
to melt. The tin used to make bells , which is fine tin is more  and which is brittle, is easier to melt than lead,
which is soft . Latten, made brittle by the calamine   is
melted more quickly than red copper . The metal, which is the
substance of bells , mixed with tin , and very brittle, is soon
melted. The more silver  is alloyed, the sooner it melts, that is
why solder  is made with it. In Germany  they make very
light candlesticks, it is because they turn them by means of
water , but they are breakable. A quintal  of
per  fine coppersmith 's rosette  is
sold for xxx or 40 lb . Another type used by founders 
is sold for xii or xv lb . The quintal  of metal ,
six lb .Put in 
# Gold , silver copper 
latten iron .

 033r
Knife  for cutting the nose  or a
finger 
 This is a well-furbished knife , nailed  through the
middle in such a way that it easily moves to one side & the other
& the side    A, is hidden inside its handle 
marked C as readily as the side B. The two tenons you see at the tip of
the knife  are for locking it on one side or the other against a
nail  which is at the butt of the aforesaid handle , so
that when one wants to press hard on  something in order to
cut it, it does not come out from the handle . You may allow the
side marked B to cut for demonstration purposes, but not
much , but the side that is notched A  and marked A must
not cut. It  It is sufficient that it be furbished well. And
also the notch needs to be as thick as the back of a
knife   so that it cannot cause pain. And you will only show
the part of the knife  which is not notched, for the side with
the notch needs to be mar   hidden inside the
handle . And when you want to cut the nose  or a
finger , pretend to sharpen your knife  on the
thigh  and, while while  doing this, turn the
knife  deftly. & the part with the notch, which you will
cover l   with one finger , will come into
your hand , and you will place the notch, colored with
brazilwood rosette  or black cherry juice , upon the
nose .


The conjuror  ought not to amuse himself by watching what he
is doing, but look at the spectators  and give them plenty of
good hocus-pocus words so that they look at his face  & not
at his hands .

 To relight an extinguished candle between your hands without
blowing
  Take a small stick of well dried wicker   and cut from
it a small piece like a toothpick, & put one end between your index &
middle fingers and clasp both your hands, fingers well joined, and pass
them deftly around the lit candle as if you wanted to cover it with
them, & your wicker  will light, & immediately remove your hands
thus clasped, & immediately put out the candle. And then put your hands
around it again as if you wanted to cover it, & your little
wicker  light, by means of the smoke that you are holding with
your two palms the candle will light. Then immediately extinguish your
wicker  & secretly cast it aside.

 033v
To make it seem to someone that he has a piece of silver on his
forehead
Take a token or piece of silver  and wet it and make it hold
against your forehead. Then say to the bystander that if you put it thus
on his forehead, he will not be able to make it fall without lifting his
hands to it, no matter how he shakes his head. And making it seem as if
you are placing it on his forehead, retain it in your hand & amp; wet your
thumb with your saliva  then press it quite strongly on his
forehead. And thinking he has the piece on his forehead due to the
coolness of the saliva  , he will shake his ears &  will
get nowhere.

For making blood or wine issue from someone's forehead or from a
wall
 Take an “ambu ” or funnel of white iron  which is
double-walled in the body but not in the spout. Make a small hole at the
top edge &  another slightly bigger on the inner wall that will be a
little above the spout, just as you can see in the adjacent example.
Then when you want to use it, put in wine  or liquid rosette of
Brazilwood  or black cherry juice , and blocking the hole of
the spout with your little finger, make sure that the funnel is well
filled so that the wine  can enter between the double walls
through the hole at the side, &  if it does not enter well, making it
seem as if you are tasting the wine , suck &  draw in a little air,
drinking where the little hole is. After, make one of the close
bystanders drink the rest of the wine  or cast it aside or let it
flow through the tip, but before, you must have pressed your thumb well
over the hole on the top edge, because in this way, by the compression
of air, the wine will be retained between the double walls. Then with a
bodkin rounded at the tip &  that goes into its handle, you make it seem
as if you pierce the forehead of someone who holds a glass in his hand,
and while you pierce, you cover what you are doing with the funnel that
you hold close to
# 

his forehead. Then removing your thumb from over the hole on the top
edge, the air, being free, will make the wine  issue from between
the double walls through the hole marked B, &  fall through the tip
marked C into the glass. But you must make the fellow bend his head
enough in order to do it well.

 034r
 To tell someone that by holding a finger to his forehead, you
will prevent him from exiting a chamber
Make him put his arm around a bedpost or something similar, & with
the same arm, let him hold a finger to his forehead.

Wager someone that walking to a certain place and back, he cannot
say boot without spurs four times in a row
If he tries to say it, but be sure that he speaks loudly, 
once he has been there & back, you will tell him that he has lost,
because he needed to say boots four times without saying spurs, for that
is your wager.

To make a candlestick hold to the wall without making a hole in
it
Make a servant hold it to the wall.

How not to break a glass with a log or a large stick
You will cut from it a piece as big as a toothpick, & thus you will
give to him from a log or a large stick, with which he will not be able
to break the glass.

Writing cunningly
Cut some long strips of fine parchment  & mark them according
to their order with A B C & cætera, then sew them inside the hem of a
shirt of rough cloth , like that of a messenger, who, if you want
to take his shirt, will know nothing of it.

 034v
For melting or transmuting a jewel put inside a box
 

Take a box of boxwood banded with rings, as you see, into which will
easily fit another small box, like that which you see marked B, and make
sure that it does not touch the bottom of the large one marked A, but
that there is some distance. That which enters the large box must be
smooth, but the rim must be made with rings so that, being joined, it
appears as if they are one and the same box. You must also have a round
leather  cover of the same length as the box, as you see marked C,
which will fit easily & surround the aforesaid boxes thus placed one
within the other. But before you do your trick, you must put at the
bottom of the larger box powdered gold  or silver , or
mercury  amalgamated with silver , and then place the little
box marked B on top. After, holding the box with your index finger on
top, you present it, and seeing only the bottom of the smaller box
marked B, one places a jewel or something similar in it. This being
done, placing the box on the table, you cover it with the leather box,
and making the requisite gestures, you will remove the leather box, &
without showing the inside, will put it on the table & let it be
recognized that the jewel is placed in the bottom of the small box
marked B. Then you will gently place the leather box back, & after
saying inhonorificabilitidinitad tudinibus, you will take the
top of the leather box with two fingers, and clasping it more firmly
than usual, at the same time you will lift the smaller box that is
inside & which contains the jewel, & you will gently put both on the
table, then you will pour the powder or amalgam that is at the bottom of
the large box, then replace the leather box with the box inside it, as
it was at the start. Then, removing the leather box without removing the
smaller one, you will show the jewel at the bottom which has returned to
its previous state, holding your index finger on the rim of the box so
that it does not slip.

 035r
To tell someone that you will teach him something he does not
know, and neither do you
Take a string or a small stick and take the measurement from the tip
of his ear to the tip of his nose and show it to him. Thus you will
teach him something you did not know, and neither did he.

To support a bucket of water  on the tips of three knives
laid down without touching the ground
 According to the strength of your knives, either kitchen or table,
you will make them support a large weight on their tips laid down &
arranged in a triangle, edge to edge, as you can see, & they would
not touch the ground. And if, after arranging them this way, you turn
them the other way without unjoining them, the tips of the handles can
also support a large weight without touching the ground. You can just as
well adapt this to another use with pikes, with joists, or to quickly
make a tripod in a camp with three halberd tips. If the edge of the
knife marked A faces from right to left, the butts of the handles will
rise, but if the edge of the same knife faces from left to right, the
tips will rise.

For boiling an egg  in cold water  without fire
Empty an egg  from both ends so that nothing remains inside,
then fill it with quicklime  & natural sulphur , then
stop the holes with wax  & put it in water  so that it
floats by two or three fingers.

For making rabbits  come out of a burrow 
Take some embers  in a pot , & having put
sulphur  on top, put it in the burrows  & block it
with something light.

 035v
For preventing someone from eating a foodstuff
Dry some calf's foot  root , otherwise iarus ,
& sprinkle the foodstuff with it. There is no danger in this. @See
Mattioli.

For transmuting grain  from one vessel to another
 Take two small wooden  bushels @of the same size, which should
be hollow on the bottom exterior by about the width of the back of a
knife or more. One of these will remain empty, & on the bottom of
the other you will glue kernels of grain  with starch  so
that it will be covered entirely with grain , & it will seem
to be filled with it. Take also a wooden  bell into which you will
place as much grain as can be held within the capacity of one of the
bushels, and over the top put a simple piece of leather  that fits
tightly inside the bell. Put all into a bag or a napkin or a folded
handkerchief, if you do not want to use a conjuror's pouch. First show
the empty bushel, then in front of the audience fill it with grain, then
put it back in the napkin. After, leave that one there & take the
other where the grain is glued with starch & it will seem to be the
first one, filled with grain. Put it under a hat & place the bell on
the table, gently for the first time. And if you like, quickly &
without stopping, show the bottom which will be covered with white
leather of the color of the wood. Then pretending to show the bushel
that is under the hat, you will turn it deftly to the side that is empty
& leave it covered. Then you will command that by invisibilium the
grain pass into the bell, which you will have tapped shortly before on
the table a little strongly, & the grain will fall to the bottom
& cover the piece of leather. Then lift the hat; the bushel will be
found empty and the bell full of grain, which you will scrape deftly
along with the piece of leather


 
 036r
 

so that it cannot be seen, & you will by cunning illusion cast all
of it into the bag or pouch.

For transmuting a ball into a thimble, cunning
de cuir  Make a small sheath of plain leather, such as cow or morocco,
somewhat thick, as tall as three fingers, sewn like the finger of a
glove & large enough that two fingertips can fit inside & which,
at the tip, which is a little puckered, has a round hole as large as a
double liard. Take two similar boxwood  balls, & let one be
hollow & open with a round hole on one side only so that the thimble
can fit inside. Thus, when you want to perform, you will place your
leather  sheath on the table with the ball that is not hollow.
Pass a stick inside the leather  sheath to show that there is
nothing there, also show the full ball, and hold the one which is hollow
& has the thimble inside it by your little & ring fingers, and
do this with your right hand with which you are holding the stick.
After, you take your leather  sheath & place it over the
hollow ball which is in your fingers, & making it seem as if you are
putting some oribus  powder  over it, you put back the
leather  mold that contains the ball with the thimble on the
table, then you take the full & solid ball remaining on the table,
and command it to enter from under the table into the leather 
sheath. Then, lifting the leather , the ball seems to be the same,
although it is the hollow one. Then cover it again & command it to
become invisible. And then, lifting the sheath while pressing it, you
will remove it and the ball along with it; & putting it aside with
the sheath, in its place will be found a thimble for the ladies whose
bottom hurts, that is to say, the bottom of the needle.

 036v
Founder 
Kitchen pots are made well, in order not to give a bad taste to
the meat , with the same metal the bells are made of . It is
true that founables  ders   mix in
more latten  to make them yellower, in order to sell them better.
But the latten  by itself, &simply by touching it, is
stinking  & bad smelling .
Latten  does not lose, or very slightly, its calamine 
in an air furnace  when it is melted in a crucible , nor
does it lose it in a wood  furnace , but it does in a
bellows furnace  because bellows  give intense
flames.

Air furnace 
It is necessary that the mouth be narrower than the bottom. And it
is enough if the crucible  can enter in it, & if there is
enough space to remove & take it with pincers .

Glassmakers ' glass 
It is said that in Lorraine  & Flanders linking glass  is made of fern  ashes  &
pebbles . First they blow up a long still that another worker
breaks off and cuts vertically with big shears. Then this long still
expands by being placed on a stone   or large
platine  in a furnace  slightly colder than one for
melting. Furthermore, they flatten it by rolling over  it a
big & long iron  stick . Then they take it out of the
annealing furnace . Similarly, they make some in
England  that are quite beautiful. Close to Rouen  in
France , flat glass  is made with some sel
de  saltworth   & pebbles  and is
whiter & softer than the Lorraine  one, because it can be
melted with a candle , unlike the Lorraine  one. This
flat glass  is blown up in a long still -- the end of which
someone else cuts and blows up whilst turning it, then flattens it using
a plane  which is on the ground, A  and then reheats
it. Thus the middle of the still, where it began, always stays the
same.
The glass , when wet, can be
broken again with the flame of a candle , but not as precisely
as with hot iron  .

 037r
Founder 
The metal  whitens the more it is melted, because the
tin  does not go away but rather mixes in more. And, by holding it
a long time in the fire, the filth  is eaten away, which makes it
brittle. If you want to chase away the tin  from the
copper , after it is well hot, throw in saltpeter  often.
This only & not the fire separates it, & purifies it, & eats
the filth  away. The metal  is cast very neatly. The
copper  is prone to swell, but because it is soft, it can be fixed
with a hammer .

Medicine for the stomach which heats it and unstops the
liver
Take  Take wormwood  powder , dissolve it
in capilli veneris  syrup  or preserves , & make
with it an opiate that you will take once a week   on
a host soaked in wine . Then you will be able to drink a
finger   of sufficiently tempered wine . This
dissipates the phlegm & the winds which arise from it. You can take
six pepper  grains   & grate their rinds such
that they are smooth, & swallow them without chewing. This benefits
the stomach  without heating the liver .

Leaves for the   gemstones 
Once made, one ought not to keep them in any case of iron 
or metal  , for this stains them, but in some box of

For preventing candles from dripping and making them
candles  white
Once they have been made, put in a mould some fresh water 
whipped with some bran , which should by no means be purged again
of its flour , so that the water  is white. And dip your
candles in this. Then leave them to dry. And do so thusly two or three
times.

 037v
Gardener 


For sowing melons  well, one needs it to be the end of a
moon cycle   for otherwise they would sprout too many
leaves & not bear enough fruit. Make small e  
holes, two fingers  by two fingers  , with a
pickaxe  & put in each two or three seeds . Next, take
very fine earth  & fill the depressions lightly with it. Next,
spread over all to the thickness of a thumb  havets , that is to say wheat fl  
chaff, in order that coming rain does not beat the earth & prevent
their birth. Havets  attract field mice  who eat
the seeds. And for avoiding this, one must moisten them with
s   a decoction of wormwood  . 

Glassmaker 


Some do not lay gris d'escaille  on the glass  to work on
it, but trace straight on the glass  with noir à huile .
However, it is important that the wood  be degreased, because if
it has even a little grease on it , the color will not
take at all. And even, if the working glassmaker  has a
stink  from his nose  or his mouth la  , & he breathes  on the glass ,
the color will not take on it. Those who came up with the invention of
working in small works of softened enamels  use only azure
enamel , which is blue, & esmail colombin , which is the
color of purple, which they soften with rocks  or lead
glass . As for yellow, they make it from silver , red from
sanguine , as is said elsewhere, black & gray & shadows
from scale black , either strong or weak, carnation from light
sanguine . Green is made first from yellow, then they overlay
azure enamel , either strong or weak, depending on whether they
want to make it bright or dark.



Yellow Amber 


It is cut with a file , then one passes a certain pulverized
salt  across the surface, which an Englishman  called
desramonet . But I believe that this was pulverized pumice
stone , for it had the harshness of arène . And with a taut
cord , he polished his amber , then passed tripoli
from Bretagne    on it with the finger  ;
others used a piece of leather   or a cane .
Amber  loses its color if an unhealthy person wears it, &
becomes whitish. But to restore it, it needs to be soaked for one
night   in urine , then boiled a little in it.



 038r
Sapphire 
One finds sapphires  that one calls de treille ,
because they are pierced and it is said that a certain king 
had made from these a certain ornament in the shape of a trellis, that
would be thus named the Screen of Charlemagne  in the treasure
of Saint Denis , in which the gemstones  are set without
leaf, so as to have the enjoyment of the light on one side & the
other, &to show their naivete. I have a white one that seems to be
rough & pierced, and is spotted all over with blue blemishes. I am
of the opinion that these are artificial & that they are of
taffre   or very clear esmail azuré   melted
entirely on the sapphire . The file  bites it as on
the beryl . 

Saffron  
It is counterfeited & augmented with marigold  leaves
half-dried, & twisted like a thread , & put in the
hottest sun  to dry, & is mixed, & the aforesaid
marigold  even gives some color.

Sapphire 
Stone cutters  sometimes choose old pieces of antique
glass  in church  windows, which are much thicker than
those of today  & are of more lively colors. If it is for
souf  sapphire , they choose beautiful blue
& from such a place that there are no pieces grains , if it is possible. And having cut it in squares with
emery , they cut it in bevel & polish it. And in this manner,
they counterfeit very beautiful sapphires . The old esmail
d’azur   for silver  verging on aquamarine was very
appropriate for counterfeiting sapphires , but it is scarcely
found. One counterfeits aquamarines  with white glass , but
they take it from the bottom of the glass .

Amber 
The orangeish color that is in transparent amber  and in the
other one that has body is not internal, for on the inside it is
whitish. But through age it  or wearing it, it acquires this
reddish crust. This is why those who cut it with the file  or on
the wheel  do not remove, if it is possible, this crust. But
they only polish it, rubbing it with a willow  
stick  or other soft wood  dipped into water  &
dusted with tripoli of Brittany   , and it takes a
beautiful polish. If it is too straw yellow & you want to intensify
its color, hang it inside a chimney  where there is much
soot  & smoke , and it will take on a reddish-orange
color. Try to take the most whitish transparent one, and put it under
dung  to turn it green, like bones . Or smoke  it
in a closed space , in the smoke of safre   or
manganese  & other drugs  that you know. Or in
urine  & distilled vinegar  mixed with colors, or in the
vapor of aqua fortis   boiling in copper , or
aqua fortis   boiling with silver  & sal
ammoniac   & Some cut amber  in facets on a wheel
of soft wood   with potée   instead of
emery , & jet  also. The salt called de Langlois
de armonic   is a mineral salt  that resembles marble
stone  and is a very hard mineral with large pieces, like that of
Cardona  & Monserrat .


I have experimented by making it boil in lye  or corrosive
water , it turns reddish on the surface. And if it is rubbed against
fir   & soft wood  before it is cooled, it is
easily cut.

 038v
Black color for dyeing 
Take lye of quicklime  & litharge , mix & soak,
& you will make a dark brown dye , & reiterating the same
you will make black. Try other colors with lye of lime .

Against nose bleeding  and for dyeing 
Pestle  some sorrel   or lapathum
acutum    of the sort that is red-veined, which is called
dragon ’s blood , and apply it de   to
the bleeding person's forehead  . This herb is a strong
dye  & makes beautiful violet.

Beautiful artichokes 
One needs to cleanse themevery year   so that only
one foot is left, & water them thoroughly. L  
Also replant some every year  , for the second
year   they will bear very beautiful fruit.

Planting trees
One says that rarely a tree planted on Saint Paul 's
day  needs to take, & for covering the bark, cow  dung
is very appropriate, for it is not undone in the rain like earth.

Merchants 
Those who retail velvet and other materials do not keep double-entry
books because they sell in small quantities and recording 
these details would be too much effort. They only have their sales book
and account books. But those who sell in bulk and those who traffic in
woad have a double-entry book.

Scarlets
Because one aulne   costs seven or eight
lb.  to dye , they use cloths  worth seven or eight
francs  an aulne  . But whoever wants something
beautiful se la   should buy white cloth  worth
fifteen francs  an aulne  & have it dyed  with
pure scarlet pastel   & a little cochineal .
Black cloth  comes thin because the dyeing  is
inexpensive.

 039r
Goldsmith 
They assemble silver filings  with saltpeter  which
refines it & does not make it brittle. But gold filings  are
assembled with borax  or, to spare the borax , with
lead , which refines the gold  & softens it, for the
saltpeter  would make it brittle, which silver  does not do.
This is why, to save money, goldsmiths  use it to assemble, in
order to spare borax , which costs viii sols   per
ounce , & saltpeter  x sols   per
lb .
When goldsmiths  have thus assembled their silver
filings  with saltpeter , a red enamel  vitrifies at the
bottom of the crucible . I do not know if the copper 
mixed in with the silver  is the cause. Try for
enamel  .

Pastel  woad  
It is grown in Lauragais where the deep soil is so
fertile  that if wheat  was grown there every
year  , it would lie flat for being too vigorous. This is why
one alternately does pastel  woad  and wheat 
there. For the cultivation of pastel  woad , one works
the soil with iron  shovels , as gardeners  do.
Next, one harrows it with rakes , & breaks it up finely as
for sowing cooking herbs . One commonly sows it on
Saint Anthony 's day in January . One makes eight harvests
of it. The first ones are better. The best pastel  woad 
of Lauragais  is the one from Carmail  & the one
from Auragne . And sometimes the pastel  woad 
is good in one field & in the one close by it  will hardly
have worth. The goodness of the pastel  woad  is known
when, put in the mouth , it gives a taste as of
vinegar  , or when crumbling & breaking it, it has some
mold-like veins which are as if golden or silver. One assays it in the
dyers ' vat , and to fill a vat  with it, one
needs six balls  of it. One dyes several locks  of
wool , and if it dyes fifteen times, it is said to be fifteen
florins , if it gives xx dyings, xx florins . The good
kind dyes up to 30 times & commonly up to xxv or 26.

 039v
Enamel 
Enamel  takes more readily on copper  than on
silver . It is true that the cut needs to be well hollowed out
& rough. Azure  in body & the red called gules, white
enamel  & thick green take to it very well. Having
enamelled , one gilds the feuillages  of the
engraving   . Copper  has a similar
hardness for engraving as fine silver  or
pistolet  gold  .

Colors for illumination on glass 
In order that your turpentine  colors shall not spread, &
hold together, mix in a little of tear of mastic  together with
the turpentine .

Tracing some history on glass 
If you want to trace some history in intaglio on glass , you
can do it in different ways. Lay your glass pane on ,
the thinnest you can find, on the printed history, & having cleaned
the glass  well with lye  & ash  so that it is not
greasy, trace over the lines visible to you with noir à
huile   or noir d’escaille   with the
pinceau  , if you want to paint with colors in the
manner of glaziers , who wash their glass pane  with
noir d’escaille   & then scrape & clear the parts
which they want to coat with color, leaving that which is necessary for
shading. But if you want to make gilt  histories on glass 
with a background of colors, which imitates the basse-taille  of
goldsmiths , gild  your entire glass pane  with
gum water  or garlic  juice  or fig-tree 
milk . Then moisten your printed history between two wet
linen  cloths   & lay it down on the gilt
glass . Then with a pin  mounted on the end of a small
stick , follow the lines of your history as if you wanted to
pounce it, & thus you shall exactly trace it on the gilding of
the glass . & next you shall clear the background & that
which needs to be blank with a quite pointy steel  awl ,
& and neatly follow once more the lines & accomplish your work
& fashion your faces & flesh tones in pounded silver ;
then you shall fill the background with azur d’esmail   or
verdigris  or fine laque platte  platte   tempered with clear turpentine , mixed
with a little of tear of mastic  if you want that the colors hold
together more & not to spread. Next, layer on the back of the
glass  & over the colors a white tin  sheet. And once
this is dry, you can cover the tin  sheet of  with color
to hide your secret. The tin  sheet gives light to the colors.
Thus you will be able to paint without being
 
 040r
 being at all expert in painting. If your glass  pane is
bulging as if taken from the belly of a jar, it will show better. When
you apply your turpentine  colors to your glass  panes,
first place them on a hot tile &, once they are hot, spread your
colors & leave it a while on the tile, then lay down your tin 
sheet.

Dye 
Some take the root of lapathium acutum
maius   , which seems to be monk ’s
rhubarb   or sorrel  , & with the root, which
is yellow in the summer , they dye thread  &
similar things.

Aqua fortis  
Some put on for  four pounds  of
substance ofaqua fortis  four  that is in the
retort  four ounces  of common water  in the
receptacle , which is better than putting it into the
retort . One causes alum  to de-phlegm & calcine, so
that the water  does not have as much dregs. Many make it without
de-phlegming the alum .

Vinegar 
One takes for granted that the mineral salt  that looks like
marble  & is called Cardona  salt  in
Catalonia  & at the border of Spain ,
jec   when one heats it red-hot & throws it
in the  red hot or quite hot into wine , it turns it
into very good vinegar . Some make it with water  poured on
pomace soured  after being pressed by grape pickers ,
but it will not keep & spoils in heat & thunder
storms .

Buttons of vermeilles  
Because vermeilles   do not fear fire, one cuts them
into lozenges flat   on one side, then one joins them
together in a star shape in a paste of ground enamel , next one
melts it & one gilds  the enamel  with gold leaf 
which one reheats.

Grottos 
To fill some empty place  that cannot be laden with some
sort of hanging rocks, one puts a piece of thick parchment  close
to the fire, which shrinks & crumples. Then one paints it with
distemper , then in oil . Next one affixes it.

 040v
Cross of the commanders of Malta  
This beautiful rouge clair   which makes the field of
the white enamel  cross is blood  of fine tear of
dragon 's blood  tempered with eau de vie  
or else Indian  laque plate , which in my opinion is made
in Flanders , tempered with clear turpentine  & tear
of mastic  & laid down on a silver  leaf, not the kind
which the painters  use, but a thicker kind, which is
burnished by those who make foil backings for gemstones Av   or by goldsmiths , & that gives it
this beautiful brilliance.

Latten  and calamine 
Founders  do not melt latten  in a
air bellow  furnace  but in
crucibles , for in a bellow  furnace  &
amid the charcoals , the calamine  would disappear.
A 

Metal 
Tin  should be pure for if there is any lead , it will
go up in smoke while melting. Mixed tin  holds in the fire for a
long time but the cendrée    separates
it.

Aquafortis 
If your retort  is well luted   one ought not
to surround it with ashes  , which would only get in the
way of chasing the spirits  properly. But when, towards the end,
you give it violent fire, surround it with coals lit elsewhere
beforehand, as those in the furnace  should be, so they do not
crackle & do not make smoke. Put the said lit coals around the body
of the retort , & not close to the neck, which does not need
to be heated as vigorously. The top grate , where you place your
retort , is sufficiently far from the bottom grate 
where the charcoal is placed, one dour   or half a
foot , for by doing this you will not waste as much of
it.

 041r
Earth for casting, for founders  
It renders itself fat once beaten and also mixed with
horse  dung . Potter 's earth  would be
too fat and would crack & would not hold in the fire, but one needs
to mix it with half the quantity  of sand and a quarter 
or a fifth  of horse   dung . And leave
it to dry, then powder it, then sift  it to render it fine &
cleansed, which would prevent it from casting neatly. The dung 
renders the earth  more amenable & easier to deal with, but it
is necessary that it be well free of straw  & other things.
And when the earth  is very fat, one needs to give it more sand
& more dung . But one does find fat varieties of earth ,
themselves mixed with sand. If they are not, make them so artificially.
One always needs to reheat the earths  before casting.

Garden lilly 
If one breaks it at its first blossom & it will grow & bloom
only in the following year  , & know the
bulbous plants  do thus.

Sand
The sand chosen cast  for casting should be neither so
lean that it has no stickiness, nor too fat. And even if it is found
in nature  , however, it is not everywhere. And if you
are in a place where it is not found, you can make it, but not with
fat earth , for the sand does not want any of that, for it makes
it very porous. But you can make it bindable with brick well
ground  on marble  , or plaster  or calcinated
alabaster  or something similar, or the burned marrow of
ox  horn  or burned asphalt . If you grind it quite
finely on porphyry  , it s   acquires
stickiness better & then you can burn it with asphalt  or mix
it with a quarter part  of tripoli . Guard against
bread  falling into your sand because it makes it very
porous.


Try mixing in soot black .

Ducks 
Young domestic ones do not grow for a month  
after they are hatched, but remain in this state. But after they quickly
grow, similarly if they go into the water. One feeds them with boiled
millet   grains , crumbling them among bread 
and spreading in well chopped lettuces  .

 041v
Glazier s’ black 
Iron scale  taken from bars that have been in the fire for a
long time , & which  is thick, is much better
than the common delicate kind that falls under the anvil  in the
forge , because it imitates niello . To said black ,
described elsewhere, some add d   a little
minium  to it.



Sheared ewes 
If the shearer  sometimes wounds them, he puts
   the dung of the ewe   on top. When they
are fat, they are easier to shear & do not get wounded so easily.




If the shearer  wants to viscorter  them, that is to
say castrate, when they are one or two years   old, he
must not have been with his wife for this would make the sheep 
die.

Colors and gilding  on glass 
One ought not to give as strong gum water  on glass  for
the gold  layer as for silver  layer as for the
gold  layer because a silver  leaf is twice as strong as a
gold  leaf. Also, silver  is harder and therefore does not
scratch as easily. Q   And if the gum  was not a
little strong for the silver , the latter would not crack so
neatly. When you work, the humid  the exhalation of your
breath  moistens the leaf layered on the glass , &
therefore it would be good, while working, to heat it up a few times.
You need to be very careful to wash that which you want to be blank
& serve as a background for painting with colors, for if it were not
quite clean of the gum 's greasiness & viscosity,
the  & of other things, the colors would not be so brisk
on it. To advance your works, you can ponce , or, better still,
layer the gum  & leaf on a cut paper . In this way, you
will need to repair very little. If you want to make gold  color
there without gold , mix soaked dried saffron  with a little
massicot .



 042r
Founder 
The mould of earth   is reheated until sometimes it
becomes red hot, for otherwise the metal  would spatter &
would not do anything good. And similarly, the noyau  on the
inside should be very reheated, & mixed with charcoal
powder .

Wax  for seal and imprint
For the large wax  seals, one needs to have tepid water 
always ready & apre   to keep your wax  in
it. But before, it should have been kneaded between your hands 
to render it very even, for otherwise the water  that would get in
between would prevent it from coming together. Next you will imprint
whatever you want and put three or four pieces of paper  on, &
with a stick you  even & round like a
pestle , you will roll it as if you wanted to polish it, and it
will attach itself to the paper , which will help you lift it off
the mold . Thus you will imprint better than if you dripped it
molten. You can carve the figures & gild them, silver them, &
paint them with colors in varnish , & transfer them onto a
base of glass  painted with colors in turpentine &
mastic . And if you want to apply these plates by inlaying, do it
with gum ammoniac   mixed with vinegar , and you will have
good glue .

Casting in plaster 
Melt some wax , & with a large brush , coat the
relief of which you want to have the cavity, as if you wanted to paint
it. And a light crust upon which qu   will be formed,
upon which you will cast you plaster , to give it body
and strength. Next, in the wax  cavity, you will also cast your
plaster  in order to have your relief, & it will come out very
easily, thanks to the wax . This is done more often for large
pieces in high relief than for others.

 042v
Pounced design for scratching satin 
After you have pounced with flour  or ground chalk , in
order that the dots of the pounced design are not erased, follow the
trace with glair  beaten with the milk  or bark of a
fig tree  , which will immediately make it clear up like
water , & without becoming thick, it will keep the trace that
you will follow again & scratch with d   a
piece of glass   or a pen-knife .

Canvas for painting in oil  without breaking
In order that your oil  painting be not broken or ruined when
being bent, make your layer with honey oil , a bit of
oil , & water , & flour .

Painting inoil  on taffeta which 
In order that the oil  shall not run, make your first layer
with honey , water of alum , & starch water .

Sand for casting 
The main thing is to grind it well on the marble  ,
& that it be impalpable & mixed with a little calcined
alabaster .

For tinseling a picture
Follow the lines with lake  ground with olive 
oil , which will not dry.

White varnish  on plaster 
Give two or three coats glue quite white  for
painting. Next, varnish with varnish of sandarac , spike
lavender  oil , and a little mastic  . And in the
evening  put it into a vessel , all well-ground together,
without fire, which would turn it yellow. Then with a
pinceau  , it is dry immediately. Pour the oil ,
which will have taken the substance.

 043r
Mericotons   and pavis  
One should graft them en   during Advent of
Christmas  as long as they do not freeze too much.

White bronzing on plaster 
One needs to give four layers of painters ' glue  in
distemper on the plaster  portrait, always leaving each layer to
dry. Next, with mine d’Angleterre   ground on a marble, or
burnt lead , grind av  & distemper with a bit of
gum  or go  glue , lay down lightly. Once
dry, rub lightly with a little cotton  and the plaster 
portrait will seem to be of lead . Others grind minium  with
quicksilver .

Purpurine 
The soft tin , half an ounce  of, melt it in a
spoon . Once melted, throw in an ℥  of ☿ , mix
together. Once cold, grind on porphyry . Next take an ℥ 
of sal ammoniac , an ℥  of sulfur , the yellowest
that may be found, grind both of them. And then mix very well all the
aforementioned materials. Next put all together into a a
pignatta  glass  sublimatorium , hold this over
a small fire for an hour   & for an
hour   over a stronger one & for an
hour   over a very strong fire, and it will be done.
Next, to use it, apply soot black  with the glue  that
painters  use to paint, &  two or three times,
until it is quite black. Next apply a little varnish . Once dry,
apply the purpurine  a secco with a finger   where
you want. The more you apply, the more beautiful it will be. Next, if
you want, apply varnish  on top.

White bronzing
Apply black with glue , as was said, on the medal, then
varnish . Once dry, grate mine
d'Angleterre    on top with a pinceau  
or a finger  . The said grated mine  
embellishes lead  medals.

 043v
Varied and transmuted wine 
Grate Brazilwood   very fine, let it soak for one or
two hours in clear water . Then take this tinted water  and
add some clear water and you will make wine  as clear as you like.
If you please, put a drop of juice of lemon   or of orange 
in it and it will immediately become white. You can drink it without
danger.



Pearls 
It is said that pulverised talc  blown into a lamp 
renders them thus.



Arquebusier 
To shoot your arquebus precisely the end of the breech must come
precisely on the edge of the light, because like this the powder 
catches fire  and burns all at once without blowing and has more
strength and does not recoil. On the contrary, if the breech is made
hollow, as they commonly are, the powder  catches more quickly in
this place, makes it recoil, and blows. This is clearly shown by 
a arquebus with a chamber which recoils more than another. And since the
cannon is bigger at the breech than at the muzzle the sights are also
uneven, because that at the breech is higher than that at the muzzle.
Additionally, the thickness of the cannon is greater than the caliber by
about one line, and the sight by another. It would therefore be
necessary to either make the cannon all of one size or to raise the
barrel from the end and towards the muzzle, and push it in and lower
towards the breech. The weight of the powder  must be one third of
the weight of the  bullet.



Hail shot for the arquebus
If you want that it stays together put a piece of felt  or
leather  or paper  on it, depending on the distance, and let
the piece be made with a form precisely cut depending on the caliber of
the arquebus.



 044r
The range of an arquebus
The proportion of a hunting arquebus is a length of 4 king's feet
and a bullet of xviii pennyweight, a chasse of vi pennyweight of
powder , its range iiii-by-xx pans and 3 and a half feet and two
thumbs and a few lines, which is the Paris aulne. The medium arquebus,
which is the usual one and the easiest, has xv pennyweight of
bullet , v pennyweight of powder  & a range of lx
paces.

Pewterer 
They mix viii lb or ten  of lead , per
quintal  of tin  in cities where they are sworn
masters  . But elsewhere, they add as much as they can. One
also uses ii lb  of looking glass tin  to bind it &
three lb  of debris , that is to say the copper shards
that coppersmiths  make . This makes the vessel more
sonorous  and it is not as breakable.

This tin  is called common tin .

Arquebuse
To keep it from backfiring, clean your arquebuse every eight days,
and rub it with oil , and when you draw out, wet some linen 
in oil  & put it in instead of paper .

Lake 
To test it, soak it & apply it to paper , & if one or
two hours   later it does not die there, it is fine
and good.

Dyes from flowers 
The red poppy  , which grows amongst grains ,
makes a very beautiful columbine on white leather . The
cornflower   makes a very beautiful blue. A plant which
grows in hedges, which has a stem similar to flax , a long &
broad leaf like small bugloss , which has a violet flower
verging on blue & is shaped like the lily flower  , makes
a very beautiful turquin, surpassing azure. Another flower, the
columbine  , of the shape & size of the
bugloss  flower , which has a petal like that of the
pansy  , also makes a very beautiful turquin. It grows
amongst grains , in light soils.

 
white044v
Horse hair sieves 
They are made often in Normandy  with horse tail
hairs  that they clean with some washing water  because they
pick them out with their mouth and separate short and broken ones. They
do not make the thread  longer than the sieve and it is round.
They attach the black or white hair  at the two edges of the
thread, according to the piece they want to make. And the thread is
woven above and below like any other fabric. And passing a small flat
stick of ii or three fingers wide between two, they pass between after
two bits of hair at each step strike and weave with three steps. The
entire sieve is made of xvii bits of hair . They sell them by
dozens and each xxx sols. They bring them to Toulouse  to send
them then to Spain  and there, they exchange it with
silk .

Excellent water  against the pest by Monsieur de
Montorsin 
Take some theriac , rue   &
dittany  , & good vinegar , put the whole in a
glass  bottle , leave it half-open & well fixed, and
put it in a very long bath for three or 4 days  . Then
separate your decoction from the residue, of which decoction 
in time of need you will pour some, on a flaming red tile  &
receive the vapor of it & also perfume your clothes with it. This is
a very rare & tested secret.

White soporific oil 
Take x or 12 mandrake  apples , put them in quarters
in olive  oil , the whole in a vial  glass  bottle  which you will place in a bain marie for
two days   and your oil  will turn white. If you
rub the sole of your feet  with the same, you will soon feel
like sleeping.

Stucco 
For glueing stone , some do not use
poi  resin  & black pitch resin 
because it is too fatty, but take rosin  & sulphur ,
as much as  of one as the other , & as much of

wax  as the two, and mix it with crushed brick  for greater
strength. Others, white chalk  or crushed & pulverized
& sieved white stone .

 045r
Loading a pellet  arquebus
 It is necessary to make a wooden  pipe 4 or 5 fingers wide
that is perfectly hollow, according to the open end of your barrel, of
the form represented in A. Then, having cut some paper , which has
to be as strong as that of large printed books, in the form indicated in
D and as wide as you want your cartridge to be long, wrap the
paper  around the baton B and at the top, where the pointed tip F
will be around the aforementioned paper , and the cartridge will
be formed. But, in order to make the bottom more uniform, put it into
pipe A, then introduce baton B and, in the other end of the pipe, which
is marked G, insert baton C and pack so as to compact and press the
folded tip of your cartridge, then take it out, and the charge in this,
put three or four drageons or larmes. Then, with a punch, marked E, of
the same caliber of your arquebus or pistol, punch round pieces on
cardboard  or felt  or waxed cloth , and put this
round piece into your cartridge, and push it until the drageons with the
baton B, the more drageons, 3 or 4, then a round piece. And continue
like that until the cartridge is full, the put it into the arquebus. If
you want your pellet to scatter earlier, make round pieces out of
paper . If you want it to reach further without scattering, make
the piece out of cardboard . If you want it to reach even further,
make the round piece out of waxed cloth , or either of
leather  or felt , and a piece of waxed cloth  on the
top. And if you make the cartridge in part with waxed cloth  or
waxed paper , it will reach one hundred paces and will make a big
hole, and the pellet , barely scattering, will produce a big
opening. But if you make your cartridge with waxed cloth  or a
material stronger than paper , it cannot be so long, with the
cardboard  tip being like in D, because it is enough if it wrapped
around twice. In such a way, the pellet  barely scatters and makes
a big hole in porte-corps armor or others.

 045v
Loading an arquebus
You must have different charges depending to the range that you want
your arquebus to have, all of which have a screw on the end that fits in
the nut of the the said arquebus' ramrod. So when you put the powder in
the charge, which is in the nut, hold the ramrod upright. And raising
your arquebus up, insert the said ramrod until the charge is in the
bottom of the arquebus, then straighten the arquebus, the mouth of the
barrel up, and remove the ramrod. That way, your powder will now be
entirely in the breech without any grain or dust that lines the sides of
the arquebus, which always has some grime in the chamber. That way it
will not recoil, and you will shoot more true.
 
How to adjust a bent gun barrel
Take off the breech and put it the barrel  on a well-leveled
table set perpendicular to the floor, and insert a very smooth string
without knots, on each end of which there is a plumb hanging from each
side. Then look in the barrel along the string, and if it does not touch
equally all over, note the place where it does not touch and hit it with
a hammer on the exterior of this this side in the same place, and this
will make it straight. Do this all around it.

 046r
For the teeth oil of sulfur 
Some people whiten them with confections of
aquafortis  , however one says that this corrupts them
afterwards & causes a blackness on them. One says that oil of
sulfur  is excellent, but one needs to mix it in this way: take as
much clove  oil  as can be held in a
walnut  shell  , and as much rose honey ,
& seven or eight drops  of oil of sulfur , & mix
it well all together. And after having cleaned the teeth  with a
small burin , touch them lightly with a end  little
cotton  dipped in the aforesaid oils  and leave it for a
little while, then spit or rinse your mouth  with tepid
water , and reiterate two or three times. Oil of sulfur 
penetrates & is corrosive, and the  but the
clove  oil  & the rose honey  correct it.
Therefore use it with discretion.

Wheat  oil 
Applied to hair, it makes it fall out & keeps it from being
born.

 
Against the falling sickness
Take or  four or five fresh crow  eggs ,
& the  over the space of 4 or five
mornings   cook one of them, and, having mixed in it a bit
of powdered gentian   & one drop  of oil of
sulfur , give it to the patient. It is held that the pain will not
return.

Against cold gouts
Oil of guaiac  & of sulfur  mixed together,
applied.

Go  Flowers of trees
Those that are seen with every es  s   new ☾   scarcely come to
profit. One ought to leave only two buds on the graft.

 046v
Scribe , Oil of sulfur 
If the writer  wants to clean his quill  quickly
of the layer of the ink  which has dried on it, one only needs to
soak in oil of sulfur . And it will immediately be white &
clean. Urb. 

Shoemaker 
If he wants to do some tanned work on black leather  shoes, he
can dip a writing quill  in oil of sulfur  and paint with
it what he would like on shoes, boots, and collars. And he will obtain a
reddish color which will not disappear by any effort. Urb. 

Erasing a letter


Dip a writing quill  in fresh & good oil of sulfur 
& thus retrace all the letters with the dipped quill  and
they will disappear on parchment . Urb. 

Writing without ink 


Write with oil of sulfur  & heat & the letter will turn as
black as this one. Urb. 
 

Making letters à jour  on paper  and other
work


If you write d   or trace something on the
paper  & heat it soon after, & immediately it will turn
black; then by rubbing with a sponge , the letter will be cut
because it will be burned. Urb.  Or retrace the letter with a
dry quill of .



Making someone's boots burn


Rub the aforesaid oilof sulfur  , & as it becomes
warm, they will burn without a flame.Urb. 

On stone  black letters


The same oilof sulfur   on letters engraved in
stone  & heated turns black & penetrates.

 047r
For teeth 
Sal ammoniac  i ℥  , rock salt 
1 ℥  , alum half
℥  . Make water  with the retort , and
as soon as you touch the tooth with, the tartar & blackness will go
away. It is true that it has a bad odor , but you can mix it
with rose honey  & a little cinnamon  or
clove  oil .



Antimony oil 
It yellows quite strongly, even silver , if you put it on it
once heated.



Against falling sickness or vertigo
Hung round the neck , wear root of peony  
which has been picked at the moon’s waning .



Crucibles
Those from Bayonne , which seem to be made of
grés   are better, for they last, without comparison,
longer than others. And because they are not very thick, one wastes less
charcoal  melting gold  & silver , for they heat
quickly. They do not absorb as much silver  as much as the others,
& for this reason, there is not much laveures   to be
found in them. They are less likely to fall over as others that have a
flat foot.



Against diarrhea and dysentery
Against diarrhea, it is very good to use preserve of
symphytum  , also called consolida
maior  . And if it is against dysentery, you can rub with it the
temples , the hollow of the hands , & the sole
of the feet  with wax oil  & take one drop  or two
of it with a spoonful   of broth . The root of
consolida maior  , pestled & put between
pieces  cuts of beef   in one piece, then
boiled, rejoins them, as one says.



 047v
A drink having a taste of wine
Take tartar  from large vessels & dilute it in
water  & it will have the taste of wine.

Melting
Some, to make it run neatly, put half metal  &
half copper . Others take one part  of
potin  & one part  of copper  latten . Others take one part  of candlesticks
latten  & one part  of basin latten . And among
basins, the latten  of larger ones is more brittle than that of
skillets, because in order to make the round shape so small it is
necessary that the substance be softer. For big ones, that have a more
ample round shape, the substance can be more brittle. In any event, the
most brittle latten  runs better, & casts more neatly, but it
must be cast very neat  hot. One  When one wants to
cast, one casts lead  into the substance, which makes it flow
& run & goes up in smoke, & keeps the mold  from
corrupting. And if you want to cast pieces de foeu , mix in more
rosette  than latten , so that it is less breakable. The
crucibles for melting metal   should be better than
those for glassmakers   for glass  is not as
heavy as metal . And in this instance, one needs to lute the
crucibles  with earth  and crushed glass .

Crucibles 
Those made in winter  & humid
weather   are not good. Those of the founders should be thick
and should be luted.

Cast
Finely calcinated pumice stone  casts 22 carat gold  without repair, but it needs to be ablaze and red like the
metal . And it withstands several casts.

 048r
Founder 
The heating
 

For a furnace  for melting a large quantity of metal 

Curing dogs  of mange
Give them a pill of precipitate , that is to say iii or 4, or
up to 5 grains , mixed with their meat . Having given it
to them one one  week  , give
them another seven or eight days   after.

Excellent mustard 
Dry some bread  in an oven, then stick cloves  &
cinnamon  into it and put it to soak in good wine . Then,
being well crushed, pass everything through a cloth  strainer and
incorporate it with your mustard seeds .

Keeping birds and animals
Take a measurement of their body, which is fleshy & more subject
to decay, with some canvas  that you will cut from their size
& width. And having filled it with cotton  & sewn it, skin
them, leaving however the head, the neck, the wings & the feet on
the birds, & the head, the legs & the feet & tail on the
animals, because those dry easily. Then fit that skin  on the mold
made of canvas . Small ones are dried in an oven or prepared with
sel ammoniac  &   .

 048v
Regulus extraction
Take one lb. of antimony , half a lb. black soap,  and
half a lb. of tartar  from Montpellier . Once the whole is
pulverized, one needs to boil in a varnished earthenware pot  on a
big fire  while stirring the whole often with a pick of wood or
iron , & the said soap  will be consumed and burn off and
the rest will stay more or less red, and it will be necessary that it is
reduced by a third. Then one needs to throw it on a tile  and it
will turn blackish. One will need to melt this four or five times and
pour it on the flat tile  and then you will have the regulus drawn
from antimony.
Others pulverize the antimony  & mix it with
saltpeter  & pulverized tartar , as much of one as of
the other, &, having heated a pot  or crucible  red hot,
they put a little of it at a time, & se   turn
their back for fear of the smoke, and continue thus until everything is
put in, and strengthen the fire  until everything is thoroughly
melted & melt it again several times.

Lead , tin 
They become brittle having been put back to melt, often or for a
long time, and they thicken and burn, in such a way that even when one
melts a saulmon , the tin  thickens at the bottom if,
while casting, one does not stir it often. It is best for casting to
melt a little lead & the  or tin  &
remuer   to renew at each melting. The antimony 
renders them breakable. The looking glass tin  whitens them.
One Pewterers  put in on the fine
tin   one lb  of looking glass tin  per one
quintal  of fine tin  & two lb  & a half
or three lb  of red & soft copper of cauldrons , which
is better than latten.  There is fine & soft tin  &
brittle tin . The brittle one is cast in grille  
by the pewterers  to sell it better. O  
They come out better & more neatly in stone  moulds 
than in a copper  mold , because copper  is fat
& sticks unless one heats the mold  well or one casts large
works. Three quarters  of lead  per one lb  of
soft tin , makes a very liquid line & proper for casting,
which has a shine like a mirror. Tallow for glass  lightens them.
All things that lightens well metals  & remove their thickness
& dense nature & render them like  liquid like
water , render them proper for casting, for it is the thickness
that prevents them from running. Soft tin  is more even
com   than the brittle one , which is whiter and
seems to be burnished like a mirror.

To alloy well tin  & lead , one needs to melt one by
itself, and then mix in the other, small pieces at a time, and throw it
often on the marble   or the square tile  .
And when you will see it become well even like  & shiny as
if it were burnished, it is good. Because sometimes it becomes spotted
due to too much lead  & sometimes due to too much tin .
There is some tin  that has more lead  than others.
Common tin  is the one that is mixed with lead .

 049r
Lead  casting
Those who cast those small works that are sold in front of
churches , y   melt one  for one
lb  of tin  half a pound  of lead , &
cast in stone , & if they want their work whiter, they put
p half tin  and half lead , but
the first mixture is the best, & does not become porous. One needs
to cast it rather hot, for otherwise, it would not flow. Others smoke
their molds  with a resin candle  to cast neatly. The
antimony  makes the substance brittle & breakable. The
looking-glass tin  makes the work whiter, but not more runny, as
for tin , it is good to the  with pure lead .
Those who make very neat lead  casts, use bodkins .
Pewterers  cast in a copper  mold . One says
that one makes the lead  stick on the glass  with
resin . Others put into the lead  a quarter  of
tin . Looking glass tin   renders the work stronger.
Poncet .

They cast with soldering  that pewterers  glass-makers   use. 


Lump of iron Shells of iron oyster ,calcined .



Sand for lead  casting
Rye  straw ashes  well boiled then dried & then
well sieved . Alloy it with egg white . One can cast there
copper , latten  and other things.

Other
Burnt & calcined pumice stone , burnt & calcined
cuttlefish  bones , in the same quantity; & ashes of
walnut tree   or vine  , boiled, dried &
finely sieved  alloy with egg white .

Pewterers 
They put into one quintal  of fine tin  one
lb  of looking glass tin , which renders the tin 
thicker. There are two kinds of tin , one of them, nearly like
lead , which runs better, the other, brittle, which renders itself
thicker. They cast in solid tin  molds  & thick or, to
do it more neatly in copper  molds engraved with a
burin , or in stone  or in earth  .
Latten  shards, mixed in, only rendering the tin  more
breakable & harder & difficult to work with, they cast
in  very hot molds & almost red  &
very hot tin . They fumigate their tin  molds  with
resin candles .
Brittle dou   tin  is found mixed into
saulmons , easy for cutting, but difficult to put to work
&melts if it is not mixed with the other soft one. Otherwise, it
would become waste.

 049v
Birds 
Calandra larks  & all birds  taken from the nest
& which have not had freedom are better, for these which are taken
by net never sing so well. However, the savage ones give
   much pleasure with their chanting, but they ought be
taken before Michaelmas  , otherwise they scarcely
live. A small impostume occurs on all on the fork of their tail,
occasionally, which some call gaillardise , which makes them
sick & sometimes makes them die, especially calandra larks .
One knows when they are sad & do not sing. One must pierce it
av  , not with a pin , but very gently by
turning with the tip of quite pointy feather . The calandra
lark  does not want to be without grey  river sand, &
the grey is the best, a little coarse. It rubs itself & cleanses
itself with it.



Grain of lead 
Take a pierced playing card , pierced with a
pin  or needle , folded on all four sides. Hold it with
the end of a small split stick  and, holding the said
stick  by theun bout  other  end,
put your card  three or 4 fingers   away from
the water  that you will have put in a dish  or similar
vessel . Then pour your lead , which should not be too
hot, into the card  & continually tap on the stick 
that holds it. And thus your lead  will turn into round grains.
And pass it through a large sieve  to separate the largest grain
from the smallest. The larger one will reach 25 to 30 paces .



Birds 
Those that can  are taken at Michaelmas  are
good for keeping, but those that are taken in March  die,
because they are starting to enter into love. Bénaris  
are fed oats all summer  in order that they are fed without
fattening, to be more appropriate for hunting & taking the others.
Then, when one wants to fatten them for selling, one gives them
millet  . They sing at night . One needs to
c   take them after mid-July until
Michaelmas  , for after that time that they have their young in
this country, they go like the turtledoves . Siskins 
should also be taken from All Saints' Day until
Christmas  , for after they go to the mountains  to
brood.


Bénaris   are ventriloquists, such that singing without
opening the beak, one would say that they are



 050r
Keeping fruit for the entire year 
Take a glass  ampul  with an opening capable of
receiving cherries  and plums  or whatever fruit that
you want. Put in some hot water for the space of two
hours . And when your water  will be cooled, throw it &
turn the opening upside down on a quite even & 
table , & in a room where there is not a bit of air &
of wind . Then en   prepare a stopper of new
wax , wrapped in waxed canvas , and adjust it to the
ampul  quite precisely in order that it will be all ready to
stop it when you will have put in the fruit. And when you will have
delicately picked with your hand  only the fruit  that is
not rotten & on a warm & dry day , return to the
well-closed room, where neither wind nor draft may enter ,
& put it gently & with dexterity in the bottle . Then
stop the bottle  well with the stopper  & lute it
& making the lute if it seems good with some quicklime  &
oil , & such that no water  may enter in. Then put your
bottles  in a vat full of water  , during the
summer Et lhiver pourceque la cave s  , in
a cellar , and in the winter  put your bottles 
into a basket  furnished with some weights  & lower
it to the bottom of a deep well . For in the winter 
the water of the vat  would be too cold if the cellar 
is not quite warm, for one needs the water  to be like river
water .

Molding
If you want to promptly mold something in demy relief  that
comes to hand, fold some paper   in five or six doubles,
& place it on the medal  & make sure the
paper   is folded on the back of the medal  so
that it is well secured. Next take a stick , broad at one end
& pointed at the other, well softened and rub well on the
paper  , &with the point of the stick  retrace
the lines & proceed until you recognize that your impression is well
done. Then, at your convenience, slightly rub oil  with a
pinceau  lemp   on the
>paper   impression and cast in tallow  or
wax  or sulphur , & the paper  , without
it burning, will render your design neat, so that you will be able to
mold it later in plaster  or tripoli , and then in
lead  & other metal .
Polished cardboard   of
little thickness & a little moistened is proper. Then if you want,
strengthen it with papier collé    on the
back.

 050v
Small birds 
Benarris   sing at night  if they are left
in serain  , but they are better for fattening for
fine tables than for singing. Chaffinches  are prone to becoming
blind, & their eyes become swollen at the beginning of
August . Goldfinches  like lettuce  seeds very
much, & often one catches them in gardens  on seeded
lettuces  with two lime-twigs . But because such regular
fare  would be too expensive for them, they are ordinarily fed
with hemp  seed. The passe solitaire   is
cleansed with a spider  , which one needs to give to it
once a week   in order that it does not become
gaillardisse . The calendra  is cleansed with dry
mortar , composed of lime  & sand for keeping it from
becoming gaillardise  & fattening too much. Young small
birds  are cleansed with the same dry mortar , by putting some
pieces in their cages . The cuckoo  lays in the nest of
benarris   otherwise called verdaule  .
This bird  is very simple. I have heretofore given leave to two,
which after several days  returned to their cage. For feeding
young goldfinches , one needs to pestle almonds   with de la mie   very small crumbs of the inside of a loaf  of bread  and
lettuce  seed  or hemp  seed . If it is for
linnet , some rapeseed  .

Curried steel  and files 
The steel  that blacksmiths  & iron 
workers  commonly use is not refined like that from
Germany  or Biscay , which is reduced in hardness
p   in a bath of a molten iron , but
only  among the iron bars  which are transported in flat
ingots from the forges of Foix   & elsewhere,
there is a harder & whiter & finer kind than the other, as it
comes from the mine . And the workers  choose it
& use it like the other steel . And because it comes from
common iron , they call it strong iron . But it is not as
excellent as purified steel  like that from Germany  &
Biscaye , which is sold in small beads . Some curry
steel , giving it a heating, then temper it &
water   in a large quantity of water , then forge it.
& fine steel , which is brittle, breaks and crumbles, &
iron  allows itself to be stretched. Thus they separate the
finest steel & , which with another heating they
reduce to a mass. The Germans  make their files  from
strong iron .
One applies steel  to tools
dess   not on both sides, but underneath the part
where one sharpens & whets them. & in this part, they must be of
very doulx  iron .
Levantines  refine our
steel  because their country does not provide them with any. And
they reheat it in a pot  with bitumen , &c.

 051r
Making counterproofs
Make some soap water  & with this, rub & moisten the
engraved piece that you want to counterproof from, then lay white
paper  on it & rub very vigorously across the top with a
tooth  or the bottom of a glass   & you will
transfer your stamped piece. It is true that it will be in reverse, but
if you oil  your paper  with spike lavender & or  turpentine oil , it will show
reverse  the right way around on the other side. Then follow
these lines with a pinceau  or a quill , then heat the
paper  & the oil  will go away & leave your
paper  white. And if you want this not to be known, if, by chance,
you borrowed the piece, moisten the paper  and the polishing that
the burnisher  has made on the back, which shows what has been
done, will not be known. The soap water  will turn the piece
yellow, but well-gummed water , which has the same effect, does
not do this. If you want to, for the same effect, make gummed
water , then mix some soap  in it & do as is said.

Cutters of printing plates  
To clean the copper  plates , or to have worn ones
print better, boil them for four or five good hours  
in a good  lye with lye  which is quite
spent . Then make your ink  with some linseed 
oil  & not with walnut  oil  & press with the
rollers . The copper  plates  are sooner made than
wood  blocks , but they are not so appropriate for
printing promptly. The wood  ones are laborious but also will
sooner have printed twenty sheets than the other will have done two. To
carve in wood , the secret is firstly to poach, that is to say to
lay the counterproof or drawn piece onto the wood  block 
& to make sure that the side with the traced line is stuck to the
wood . Once dry, you then gently rub with a moist
handkerchief  the back of the paper  which, by rubbing, will
become so delicate that almost only the line will remain, which, next,
one follows in cutting the surface. You could do this with historiated
glass  & coat with noir d’escaille , to then scrape
& layer your colors on the uncovered area. To make ink  for
copper  plates 

These rollers  are good for printing promptly with cut
cartons  different kinds of pastes .

One can place the plates  among the linens  when the
lye  is quite fine, or also in a pot .
 
 051v
 which is different from that of the printers , one needs
to boil walnut  oil  or, even better linseed 
oil , for a long time . & having boiled for a long
time , you will put in garlic   & bread
crusts  to rid it of grease & leave again to boil thoroughly,
then finally you put in one part  of lampblack  that you
have previously ground on the marble   with oil  .
And finally you will mix everything as long as  & until
you see that the plate  prints well. Which  And when
you have spread the ink  on it, wipe the plates  well with
the surface of a piece of white paper  . & do this
until the paper   looks clean and then print. If you were
to wipe the plates  with a linen cloth , it would
remove the ink . Linseed  oil  thickens while
boiling & becomes like a varnish  & is in danger of
catching fire. Therefore, when you boil it, make sure it is in an
open space  or in a place where the flame cannot cause
damage . Some burn tartar  until it is black & grind it
with non-boiled linseed  oil , or walnut 
oil  which others find to be better. This black  is beautiful,
but the lamp smoke  kind is blacker. When you want to print
fr  , take with your fingertip   of
the said black moderately thick , the whole plate  having
first been cleaned in lye  as said, then, rub it with the surface
of a piece of white paper   until the
paper   remains white & do not touch it with the
bare hand because  but with a piece
ofpaper   applied across it. & having cleaned the
plate  perfectly, mi   rub again with a
piece of paper  , fold the edges & sides. Next, take a
small smooth table  & on this a piece of
felt  , then a few sheets of paper   &
finally the one you want to print on, which should be moistened between
two wet napkins . And on this sheet  put your
plate  then another piece of paper  , &
finally anotherfelt  . Then pass between the
rollers . And you can print a dozen pieces consecutively by
always charging the plate  with ink  & cleaning it as
have done. But if you stop printing, the rest of the ink  will dry
in the grooves of the plate . Thus you will have to let it boil
in lye  or urine , as already said, to clean it. The
rollers  must not be too loose.

 052r
The Work done in Algiers
Have a colt  of three of four years and feed it on
rye  barley  and straw  cut in the same way
as that which they use to feed horses in Spain . Let it drink
water  from a good fountain or river water  . I do
not know if it would be good sometimes to let him drink the water 
of sulfur  springs, and to sometimes give him fenugreek  or
other hot foods, for the intention of the worker  is to use
the heat of his manure , and the climate here is cooler than that
of Algiers. Keep it in a warm place and use it and make sure it loses
none of its manure  or urine , of which you will make a mass
or two so that while one cools the other will keep its heat and be
suitable to continue. Also have a large flask as thick as possible, one
finger thick if it can be so made, and with a capacity of one pitcher or
clay  jug, and around the feast of St John place a dozen and a
half chicken eggs , that is to say, the egg  without the
egg  white  and the germ . Others say sixty
yolks . And with this dozen and a half of chicken egg yolks 
put one half ounce (others say sixty eggs  and a half pound) of
female silk worm eggs . And after carefully luting the flask (I do
not know if air will be needed for the generation) and bury it in the
heat of the manure  up to the neck, and leave it there until
several worms  are engendered and then remove the flask and do
not bury it in the manure  anymore. But put it on the hot layer of
the manure  until all the worms  are eaten and consume one
another by shriveling and stirring, and only one remains. Once this has
happened, you must lure it at regular intervals, day and night, with the
assistance of two men, who will care for it in shifts, and you will lure
it with an egg yolk  covered in gold  leaf or with a liquid
yolk  into which the gold  leaf has been incorporated. And
be careful that it does not miss such fodder (some say one egg
yolk  per hour, others say three, but the thing itself will
demonstrate the practice). So nourished in this way it will grow in two
month or seven weeks and will become like a serpent , one span
and four fingers long, and one pound in weight, and as the wings will
begin to develop, you must kill it, doing so with a charcoal  fire
in a ring around the bottle one span away from it, and at that time lute
the bottle well so that it does not exhale.
 
 052v
 or to be safer, go away until the fire is completely blown out and
that everything is cold again. Because the exaltation may be dangerous.
And for that moment, when you take it with some tongs, do cover your
mouth with some good vinegar  and have a protection and cover
yourself with it. Once it has died out, put it into a cloth or a canvas
made of silk  and fold it and hold it to a board exposed to air
and the sun will dry it. Once it is well dry, powder it in a mortar and
keep this powder cautiously Because one ounce of this one thrown on 3
pounds of melted ♁  transforms it into a finer ☉  than the
other one. But there is not so much pitch. You also have to choose the
oldest ♁  possible which has often melted before and finely
hammered into blades or other works, and at first purify it by melting
and throwing it into some honey  and vinegar . The
completion time for such work is nine months from Saint John's day until
the 25th April. 

Linseed 
Who wants to have it beautiful & p   very
delicate, one needs to pick it before the f d  
seed may be perfectly ripe. For if one waits for the seed to be
perfectly ripe, the foot is so dried by the sun that it is brittle &
breakable. It is true that in this way the seed is reduced by a
third.

Colors
If you want to keep them beautiful in gum  and such that they
do not lose any of their natural color, put white wine , the
whitest and clearest you can, in a bottle  with a little
tragacanth gum . And having stoppered  the
bottle , scramble & shake it very strongly together, &
let it rest until the tragacanth  is dissolved. Also put in a
little fine-grained sel blanc   to brighten the whole.
Some mix clear water  with white wine , and with this
mixture they temper the colors without grinding. And these show very
beautifully on illumination  works.

 053r
Soldering  a vise 
It is good that the jaws of the vise  should be high to make
a long piece in it, and that the jaws join well to clamp a delicate
object. To solder  the nut , after you have forged the
bolt , you will make  will forge a long iron
strip quar   of such thickness that it can fit
into the notch of the bolt  when red hot, & you will bend it
po   all around, striking it with a hammer .
Once it is well jo   wrapped around, you will insert
it  the bolt o   around which
is  it is wrapped.

Copper 
If, in the fire &melting, it touches the iron , this
iron  will be afterwards so brittle that it will be able to be
forged.

Lead  casting
One mixes it, according to some, with half tin  &
half lead  and, to heat    it,
one mixes in a little sublimate . It casts well in small sizes in
a cuttlefish  bone  , provided it is good.

Paper  molding
Boil over hot ashes   some cotton  in
aqua fortis   mixed with sal ammoniac , like
aqua regia  , and the cotton  will become very fine,
like powder. Mix it next it with gummed water  & you will cast
very delicately.

Almond trees , apricots 
They come in quite straight if one grafts them. And all trees with
pitted fruit , like pavis  ,
mericotons  , alberge  ,
vie  apricots  &c., comes in best on an
almond tree  grafted en escusson .

Lead  and copper  casting
Lead  & tin  come out well in white chalk  but
the softer it is the better. The one from Champaigne  reaches
the price that is fixed in Lyon . Burnt & calcined
horse  bones  mold very neatly.

I believe that the marrow from the horns of oxen   or
sheep  , that is to say, the spongy bone  from the
inside, molds very neatly and is better than bone .

Note that all brittle metal comes out better than fat  ones. Also,
lean sand  receives it better & absorbs it rather than the
dense one .

 053v
Silkworms 
They are produced from seed, that is to say eggs, that which is sold
by the ounce , which is commonly sold in Languedoc  iii
lb  v s . The one from Spain  that
merchants  bring there is considered the best because the
worms  which come from there are not so subject to illnesses
& make more silk . In Spain , one ounce  of
silk   seed, they produce there worms  which
commonly yield ord   xv lb  of silk .
But l’once    from one ounce  of seed
produced in France , they only return x or xii. Three
ounces  of seed are for producing such a quantity of
worms , that with them you will be able to furnish a room
accomodated with three or 4 shelves of large shelves . Willingly
they begin to unskin themselves around holy week . And for
doing this, one puts them in a fir  box , like those
where one puts dragée , warmly among feather cushions .
And at the beginning, they unskin themselves like f  
little black ants , & as soon as there are two or three
unskinned, one needs to give them white mulberry  leaves ,
and then arrange them on the shelves . And three times
per day  , one needs to exchange fresh leaves . And
if during the day  there is some thunder or rainy
weather, cloud-covered & cool  , one needs to keep in the
room  three or 4 chafing dishes &  with
glowing charcoal , & put in incense  until all the
room  would be filled with smoke . And when the
weather is warm &serain  , the silk  abounds
more & and then it is better. Some worms  make it whiter,
others more yellowish. And even if it may be white, it yellows when one
draws it through hot water  despuys  .
The worms , from their birth until the their 
time when they make their cocoons & their prisons , sleep &
rest 4 times, & each time remain 4 or five days  
resting without eating, as if they were dying for rebirth another time,
for each time they change skin & begin by unskinning the head then
consequently, on different days , the s  
rest of the body, & from white turn grayish, & from grayish to
white en fin  . And if one of them has some illness
who does not have the strength to unskin, one needs to help it &
prevent puncturing it, for at that time rendering a yellow liquor, it is
no longer worth anything. And further they scarcely profit after one has
handled it with the hand  . Around Pentecost ,
they begin to want to climb on the dry branches of heath  or
heather  that one prepares for them en   &
attaches


See Marco Girolamo Vida, Bishop de b  
of Alba  and Cremona  , wrote a poem on the nature
of silkworms .




How one moves them


 
 054r
 on some of the high shelves , & at that time, one knows
when they want to climb up when, on the leaf, they
hau   lengthen & raise the head & a part of
the body. At that time one carries them to the heather  branches
where they stop & begin to spin their prison, which one calls
cocoon, commonly the size of a pigeon  egg , although
one finds many much bigger because it sometimes happens that two or
three & up to xi worms  are put in a cocoon, which is hairy
& downy all around & , the hair of which is
ferret-silk  or floret  ; & from the cocoon,
which is a white, solid, continuous & firm skin, silk  is
made. The cocoon is so hard that one only cuts it with difficulty with a
fingernail  . And, however, for leaving its prison,
elle   the worm  gnaws it at one end, &
after having  stayed inside living on its own sap
il   for three weeks  , it comes
out, diminished by half . For when it begins to spin, it is
as long as a ring finger   & has eight feet, &
coming out it shorter by half  & only has 4 feet. On the
other hand, it has become a butterfly  & has wings, without
flying however. And there are male & female. As soon as they come
out of the cocoon, the male charges the female & one puts them on a
white linen , where they make their eggs. Which female would not
be good & profitable if the male was not given to her. And when the
male has detached himself from a female, one needs to throw it, for it
would not be good to give it to another. They have completed spinning
& making their eggs in three weeks   &
around Saint John 's Day . And at that time one keeps
their eggs & seed until Holy Week  , as
on   is said. Some spin among the leaves & make
their cocoon there without climbing high.


The silk  of the cocoons where there are

 054v
 To dry jams that are not?  liquid, have an open tub pierced on
each side with a small, square window, and pass sticks through these
from one side to the other, and place on these a sieve made of strings
in the form of a net. And on this, you will neatly put your jam
containers. And having put at the bottom of the tub a hot coal or two,
cover the tub with a cloth folded in two.

For making a horse  to follow
+ One needs to give it sweet bread  & it
will know the one who will make him this goody.
And for maintaining in a good disposition for walking mects
le  , make it take a good gait from the start of the walk &
continue it.

Dogs 
For keeping them from biting, it is good to have little resin
balls  formed like those of shoemakers  & to throw to
them as they yap at you, & they will bite on the balls  so
much that their teeth will be stuck together & they will not be able
to hurt you.

For disguising a horse
Cut its ears & tail, & with lit hay , singe the hair
on its head & elsewhere.

Boots of hay 
Lacking boots, you can make a rope out of hay  and wrap it
around your legs, and rain will never pass through.

 055r
To shoot a gun without noise
Warm up the barrel and close the lumiere d'embas, and take a piece
of the freshest pork suint  that you can find and as long
as the phalanx of your little finger and the size of the diameter of the
canon, and push it back and forth until it is completely melted. Then,
load a cartridge which fits on the top of the barrel, as you know, and
it will only make a little whistling.

Dipping for a bullet that will reach far away and will compromise
the healing
Mix some suint  and strong vinegar  and dip the bullet
in this mixture while it is still hot.

Against wounds
Cut a chicken  or a dog  to test & put
sap  & pestled herb which is called
semperviva     in the wound. It is the kind
which has leaves like small grains which some call
vermicularis   . And one takes for granted that it
will not die.

Onenev elbirro  hcihw sllik fi eno spets no a draob ro a
   purrits
Take in the month  of June & July , a number
of the biggest snails  you can, with their shell, put them in a
glass  bottle  with a sufficient quantity of very hard
& thoroughly boiled egg yolks  with good vinegar .
Stopper the whole well & put it under horse dung  for
the space of fifteen days  . The snails  will
first live on the egg yolks , then with the heat they will come
out of their shells & eat & live on those. Finally, a white
ointment is made with it. Without cutting open the bottle you put , which above all for your safety you
b   will always keep well stoppered, you will put it
in the very strong sun & in the serein   for the
space  of fifteen days   .
 
 055v
 space  of fifteen days  . Next you will
break it from quite far away & with a long stick  without
looking at it &and with your face hidden, you will put it where you
want, or rub a little in a running river  or on a tree or
on a plant that is on the bank .

Another for waters 
Toad  in a pot, with quicklime, who will consume all this
powder, next and.

Damascus steel 
Distil earthworms separately & horseradish leaf separately,
& mix these two waters , as much of one as of the other, &
temper in this.

To know one's course in open sea
Soak a piece of cloth  in oil , then attach it to the
poop of the boat so that it is dipped in the water, and it will make a
trail that will be visible for ten leagues since the water  parts
wherever the oil  has passed.

For casting
Chalk  most recently taken from the quarry  is good
for lead . One ought not grind wet, but rather grind finely while
pestling or scraping through a sieve . Thus for pumice ,
which one ought not grind with water , nor corrupt its natural
state. Lead  should be slightly mixed with tin , in order
only to give it strength, and two parts oftin for  of lead  for of  one of
tin  or more.

 056r
Excellent quenching bath for breastplates
Take river water , as clear & running as possible, &
heat it to a little more than tepid. Then take a bunch of weld ,
& take the grain of it & put it into the said water  &
boil it thoroughly, stirring it with a stick , then pour it into a
muid or other vessel, then throw into it two pecks of salt . 
Next, take a big cauldron of the said river water  & heat
it to a litte more than tepid. & three or four double handfuls of
fatty red earth , wet it & throw it into the cauldron with the
said water . Take as much pigeon dung  as the said
earth , & as much horse dung  & as much iron
filings . & wet the whole separately, & throw it into the
cauldron & leave it for two or three days. Then throw it afterwards
into the said muid and stir the whole thoroughly together. And the older
this quenching bath is, the better it will be.

Varnish  for distemper 
You can make marble  by distemper  from lake  or
rose of Ghent   & chalk . Once dry, glaze with
lake  mixed in wine , for the glue  makes it die &
blacken. And all will then appear red, but the varnish  you will
put here, which will penetrate, will make dark & light parts appear
as they ought to be. The varnish  is made thus, mix with clear
Venice  turpentine  some spike lavender  oil &  until all is clear & liquid enough, &it is done
without fire. This one es   is for things in
distemper , and the turpentine varnish  that you know, for
panels. Pure spike lavender  oil varnish  is not good for
panels, for spike lavender  oil  is too penetrating &
makes colours sparkle, unless it was made long ago.

 056v
Painter
The lake  & floree  rosette of
Ghent   & others lose their color & die in the
air.
All marble   on which a knife  can prick is
worth nothing for grinding fine colors.
Chalk  has no body in oil . Ceruse  is
appropriate. But lead white  more excellent. Ceruse  is the
whitest, when ground first in water , the lead white 
grayish. But the white  it takes on its perfect whiteness in
oil .
When you grind your colors, first clean your workshop 
well, for when walking, if you stir up dust, this will damage your
colors, which will never be beautiful if they are not very
be   clean.
Florey  must not be mixed with azur d'esmail  
or another, for it makes it green.
For palettes  to paint, ivory  is excellent, knots
of the fir tree  , the pear tree   &, if it
is a walnut tree  , make sure the grain of the wood 
runs lengthwise.
L   One always needs to prime
d   on wood  to paint there in oil  in
order to fill the holes & unevenness, and prime with some stil de
grain yellow  & ceruse  mixed in oil , then soften
with a feather , which flattens better than a
pinceau  . Or when the primer is dry, scrape strongly
with a knife .
To use azur d’esmail   in oil , one needs to
choose the most delicate. And to make it subtle, one ought not grind it,
for this makes it whiten. But one needs to wash it, & the roughest
going to the bottom, choose the one that is at the top of the
water  or, by inclination, pour out the cloudy water , then
gather the azur .


@The one who makes his profession  working in
oil   will hardly work well in distemper  if he has not
been trained well from adolescence. For the way of working is different,
because when washing the pinceau   for distemper ,
one always leaves it moist. And on the contrary, when one cleans the
pinceau   in oil  to soften, one wipes the
pinceau   well. Otherwise, the work would run &
would soon be disfigured.


The Italians  soften by hatching with a large flat
pinceau   which makes serrations.


And they do not lay their shadow all at once like the Flemish ,
but make them hatching lightest toward the light then a little darker
next & and finally a little blacker to better make recede & come
up.


In distemper  do not mix your different colors together
But  for this makes them die, but use each separately. And in
order that they do not dry & that you have time to soften, moisten
the back of the canvas .
 
 057r
 Lake  takes long to dry in oil  and for that reason one must
grind glass  in it. But one needs to choose crystallin 
because it is neater. And because it would be too difficult to grind by
itself, one must redden it on the fire, then when entirely red throw it
into cold water , & it will be crumbled & pulverized
easily for grinding after. Being well ground it  with a lot of
water , it resembles ground lead white , but for this it has
no body. I think it would be good for casting.
Lead white  is made with sheet lead  beaten subtle & put
under the dung .
White varnish of turpentine  or of spike lavender 
oil  and turpentine   is colored with pulverized
terra emerita  , making it boil together. It gives agold
color on silver  and more beautiful if it is burnished. It is dry
in a quarter of an hour . Aloe  would make brighter
color, but it takes long to dry & the other is dry in a quarter
of an hour , in winter  as well as
summer .


Good lake  moistened with saliva  is rendered promptly dark.
That from Florence  is too gummed.


If you make a layer of printers ' ink  on velvet 
and there apply gold leaf  and then stretch the velvet , it
appears grainy as if it was gold powder  sprinkled on top.
Vermillion  ground by itself is wan and pale, but ground after
lake , it is more beautiful.
For taking the fattiness from marbles  , one grinds
ordinary ashes  on it, which is good afterward to make the first
primer coat of a panel that is prepared in oil  in order to seal
the cracks & chinks of the wood . It has more body than
chalk  & it has chalk   a certain fattiness.
One mixes it with the aforesaid chalk  or ra  
with the colors collected from the vessel  where one cleans the
pinceaulx  . It is desiccative and spares colors.
On  Once this primer coat is made on the wood , one
scrapes with a knife  to even it. Next one makes a second coat
of ceruse  or of the poorest  colors mixed together. In
a painting in oil on canvas  , one applies only
one coat, and the same ashes  can be used there. Also, after one
has ground a color, one grinds the inside of a large loaf of
bread  on it to remove the fattiness from the
marble  .

 057v
Sheathmaker 
Sheathmakers use small skins  of lambs  and
young goats  very delicate, as it were like parchment  and
they keep them in humid places constantly re-wetted. When they want to
print some history they lay them in the hollows of their figure and then
on top they spread some fatty fine earth  used for degreasing
cloth, well pressed and beaten and slightly humid and soft and then put
on the earth  a small one-piece board and put the whole under a
press and leave that dry there. After the earth  the
leather  only remains very neatly printed missing word  of
the size of a pea. And then apply on the leather  two or three
black copperas  and iron scale  layers one after the other
like the tanners  do. And since this tincture is astringent
and shrinks the leather will be stronger more more easily printable.
Once dried stick on the reverse some fabric  with strong
glue , and by doing so one can quickly imitate big statues and
very fine medals and paint them and   and are light and can be
carried and last for a long time. What can be printed on a relief can be
made differently and can be reheated with a hot iron 
tool.

Painter 
Good crayons   are not made with good glue  but with women's milk .
Images made of carton  , once dry, have to be soaked
in thoroughly macerated and clear melted resin . This strengthens
it, otherwise they turn limp in wet weather .
Venice  masks are made with a hollow & male face of
copper .
The Flemish  do not use any whites for flesh colors in
oil  other than lead white  because the ceruse  turns
yellow.
4 or 5 year -old walnut  oil  which is clear
is the best color, it keeps off dust. The kind which has recently been
drawn with the press in the manner of almond  oil  is
white, especially if the walnuts ' skin  is removed.
 
 058r
 One needs to make at least three layers of flesh color to accomplish
faces in oil . And at the beginning, one puts the black and umber
where it is appropriate. Next, the heightening  with lead
white  must not be put on the black. Flesh colors and   with
ceruse  going in will yellow in five or six months , but
lead white  does not change.
Florence  lake  is better than the kind from
Flanders  for in Florence  the best dyes are made. To
make a beautiful flesh color, the reddest & liveliest lake  is
the best, for the kind that contains purpurine   &
violet, by admixture of too much alum , makes flesh color like
that of one who is very cold. That is why ladies, wanting to color their
cheeks , ground Florence  lake  very finely, then
fill a little cotton    with it, which they next
wrap in a little fabric of Cambray    which is
clear. And thus they pounce the lake  on their cheeks 
& then, with another clean cotton   , they
soften it.
Cristallin   having been ground with water 
appears to be  have body, but with oil  it does not have
any. It is ground with lake  & with asphaltum , which
would not dry for a very long time  without this.
Spike lavender  oil  is commonly put with lead
white , d   not entirely pure but mixed with a
little walnut  oil . The said spike lavender 
oil  would not be good for lake  & colors that do not have
body for it would make them crack , but with those that have
body & are somewhat greasy, it is quite appropriate.
Verdigris  and orpiment  must first be ground with
urine  rather than thinning them with oil . Thus they are
beautiful & do not die.

 058v
Blacks
Black of charcoal from the mines , of ordinary
charcoal , of burnt ivory , of peach  stones , of
lampblack , of burnt bones of the feet of
oxen  

Shadows
When you are making a painting with several persons, just as the
flesh colors have to be different, so do the shadows.

In fresco
Azure  is not good here, but bleak, & one needs to work
with long  longs pinceaux  . Fresco is not used
cont   on wood 

Azure 
Turpentine oil  renders it very beautiful. Assay palma
christi  seed oil . Walnut  oil  in
Flanders  costs at least a hundred sols  a
pint . The azure  requires a little fatty oil 
because it has no body.
Azur d’esmail   hates more than any other to be ground,
especially with water , for it dies & loses all its color.
However, because it cannot be worked if it is coarse, grind not with
water  but with oil  & grind it coarsely, and in this
way it will not die as much.


Always choose the most delicate one

Pinceaulx  
When the color has dried inside, & you want to clean them, soak
them in spike lavender  oil  and they immediately will
turn soft again as before, then you will finish to clean them in some
walnut  oil . Walnut  oil is not as
not  as appropriate to soften them as the spike
lavender   kind which is clear like water  & penetrates
& does not have body like walnut  oil . The handle
of pinceaulx   is made by those who work with care from
porcupine  quills , by others from wood  of
arrows fromTurkey  with whom  with which they also
make small rods to rest their hand  when they are
painting .


To work well on a small scale very thin pinceaulx  which
have a firm point are  needed. And because the hair
taken from the tail of asquirrel 's fur  is
mollesin , the most careful take the bristles of the oldest
rats  , especially of dormice  if they can find them
& put two or three of them in the middle of the
pinceau  . These make a straight line like a
quill   & all the other hairs  of the
pinceau   stick to them as to the point. The bristles
of stone martens  & weasels  & small animals
which make musk   are even better, for a singlehair  in a
pinceau   suffices.
 
 059r
 Lake  & lead white  & ceruse  are easy to
work in oil , but every kind of azure  is difficult. And to
make beautiful azure , one needs to layer it not with large
strokes of the pinceau   but with small strokes of the
point. Not only ash from Acre    &
azure d’Acre   but mainly azur d’esmail  
which one needs to choose to be very delicate, for it 
otherwise you will not v   be able to work with it
except with great work, and even then you need to thin it with
turpentine  to give it body, and mix it with a little lead
white . Any azure  does not want to be ground or washed for it
loses color & becomes wan. But putting it powdered on your
palette , you will thin it little by little either with
walnut  oil  or turpentine oil ,
dipping  a knife point  in oil , then
tempering  it little by little on the said
palette .

Shadows
The first shadows which are closer to light need to be clear &
thoroughly softened & then the last ones very dark to accentuate
well. The Italians  usually make three shadows, the first one,
of light, very clear, the second one darker & the third ones quite
strong, then blend these three shadows together by hatching them from
the darkest to the clearest.


The varnish  is more beautiful on the panel when the color has
imbibed well.
 
Azure 
Azure  is more beautiful when imbibed on the panel
without  with walnut  oil  with which it has
been first thinned, without putting in spike lavender 
oil . And if you want to know if it is dry, breathe on it and it will
not shine, thus appearing to be well-imbibed. If not it will shine
Azur d'esmail  imbibed in oil   distempered
in oil , leaves it & returns to its first nature if you dip it
in water .
Colors for working in miniature want to be thoroughly ground, &
work them with a point of a pinceau   if you want your
work to be well-softened.

 059v
Black Painting of armory
Charcoal black  mixed with a little lead white  is very
appropriate to make armory, mixing in a little of   azure  if you wish. Charcoal black   by itself is
as if bluish.

Painting of crêpe 
First one needs to make the background greyish with charcoal
black  mixed with lead white  & a little azure .
Then, resu   after it is dry, highlight with strokes
& lines in lead white .

Folds in clothing
One needs to take care that none are made which are false, but that
only that which happens naturally is imitated. A thick cloth 
hardly makes any folds, taffetas  & silk cloth  make
more, & crêpe  more still. Make  Observe which ones
should go lengthwise & others across.

Desiccative
Lead white  & massicot  are the most desiccative,
nevertheless they need a good two days  . If you want
to prove whether an oil  is desiccative, temper lead white 
with it, & if it produces a crust in a
day    soon it means that it will dessicate.

Double layers
Azures , flesh tones and reds are layered twice. The others
not.

Mending cracks in a panel
If a painted panel breaks you can glue  it well on the
reverse, but to fill in the cracks well in order to paint on it &
repair it, it ought not to be with glue  , which rots in damp
weather  & would swell when touched with the oil  of the
painting. But take white wax , which is harder than the other
kind. The oil  mixed in among the wax  prevents it from
melting in the sun . The wax  ought not to be hard, but
soft as if recently cooled. Apply it on cracks & crevices with the
tip of a knife , then scrape.
 
 060r
 and to prevent it from breaking, mix in a little oil  &
melt them together & fill the cracks & make them even and paint
on them. And the oil  mixed with wax  will
q   help colors to hold since they are also
distempered with oil .

First whitening of a panel
One layers two or three times with chalk  tempered with
colle de destrempe    on the panel, not with a
pinceau   but with a broisse   in such a
way as if you wanted to pounce, & leave to dry. And reiterate up to
two or three times, then even the last ground layer out well with a
knife , then give coat of glue on top , upon
which you will next be able to make your impression and then paint. But
make sure that your first white is not too thick for it would break
easily. Flemish painters  have such panels made by
the dozen.

Neat work
When you are working, make sure not to stir up dust, & when you
leave your work, cover it so that the said dust will not fall upon it.
Also layer your colors as thinly as you can, for if they are thick you
will be not be able to soften them thoroughly.


Also do not layer color on color if they are not similar, such as white
on black, but rather flesh color on flesh color, & thus with the
others. And leave blank the space for shadow or a different color.
Ains   in this way, layering each kind of color only
on the impression, they will not die & you will work
neatly.

Oil 
Walnut  oil  extracted likepeeled
almonds   is very white. This one of Palma
christi  . And when the oil  has had a little body, the
colors soften. For if the oil  is too clear, the colors run &
do not  bind, even those that do not have body. Fatty
oil  that is not easily imbibed is appropriate for varnish .
The oil  is desiccative enough when it dries out as quickly as
common varnish . Oils  do not dry as quickly in cold
countries as in hot countries. Oil exposed to the sun 
is clarified well. But it fattens. If you put in ceruse  or
lead filings  or lead white  or calcined pulverized
p  glass . To avoid this, put the vial  in
clear water .
Colors in oil , once dry, sometimes do not easily receive the
second colors, to prevent this, breathe on them & the color will
take.

 060v
Varnish  dry in an hour  
Take white turpentine  oil & turpentine  & mastic, pulverized & passed subtly
through a sieve  , & boil them together, stirring
continuously with a stick  just until it is dry. And put in two
liards   of good eau de vie . And if you extract
the tear of mastic , it will be whiter & clearer. There is no
need to put in turpentine , but only its white turpentine
oil  & mastic pulverized  at your discretion, until it has
enough body. + 
+ 

which you will know when it is placed on a knife in the
wind  and does not flow. This one is excellent for panels and is
dry within an hour   and does not stick like
turpentine .

Cleaning panels
Some clean them with soapy water , others with urine ,
others with white wine , for dust spoils the colors.

Spike lavender  oil 
One ought not to not put any into colors for it is so brisk and
penetrating that it makes the colors flake, which next come off. And for
this reason, painters  use it to clean their oil
pinceaulx   when they have become hard, for it renders them
soft & clean immediately, penetrating the dry color which encrusts
them. Also, painters , sometimes envious of the work
undertaken by another, in the evening  secretly pour a few
drops of spike lavender on the  oil  on the top
edge of the panel such that, running down, it makes a stain that
penetrates as far as the wood  & destroys the colors such
that, to make the work even & of an equal composition, they are
forced to do everything again and thus lose their work.

Wood  color


One gives a layer of bistre , then a coat of
varnish .

Work of the Flemish 
They do all their works in oil  with the tip of the
pinceau  , in f   the manner of good
illuminators , and grind their colors very finely, protect
against dust, and often clean from their pinceau   the
bits of hair  which they sometimes leave there, for if these
should remain on the work it this , it would prevent neat
working, which they are very careful about. In this way their work
appears very soft, especially in small work, in which one needs to apply
more diligence because one looks at them more closely. They
usually  finish the forehead, then the eyes, next the nose,
finally the mouth and the rest. But they do not proceed like some others
who fo   layer two or three different flesh tones, one
yellowish & the other darker, because the colors always mix &
finally die. They simply    make their underlayer
properly .
 
 061r
 and even it well then  and once quite dry, they draw their
picture & layer their natural flesh color, leaving the space for
shadow, like the side of the forehead, & the cheek, & the area
around the eyes blank & dry until they have filled in the rest. Next
they put their shadows separately, which they do not make as dark as
they could not naturally be. In sum, they do not put shadow on flesh
color nor flesh color on shadow, but white on white & black on black
Thus  & each on their own. In this way their work is neat
& the colors do not die.

Flesh colors
You need to make two kinds of it, one more red to make the main
layer, the other more pale for the highlights, as around the eyes. And
then on this last flesh color, you will lightly touch the main daylight
with a little lead white . But avoid putting too much of it for
this will look like the face of a dead person. The beautiful
Florence  lake  makes a beautiful vivid flesh color that
approaches    the complexion  of rose
alexandrine   & incarnadine  .


Certain colors do not want to be ground like minium  and
massicot . The ashes  do not want to be ground at all.

Rounding off
If you want to highlight well, arr   soften round
things by rounding them off with the point of the pinceau 
& the rest with the flat part  if it is flat, & thus for the
others according to their nature, & lightly with the point of
the dry & flattened pinceau  &  with
patience.

Lead white 
Without this, you cannot work on a small scale for which one needs
to soften with great care. But you cannot do it with ceruse 
because it does not have enough body.

Lights
Your pinceau   shows it to you by casting a shadow
which must always follow the back of your hand , not in a
straight line like this,
 
for the light would be too crude & too harsh, but obliquely & as
if at an incline, thus:
 
The panel needs to not be facing the light  head-on, but half
turned against it. And above all look for a soft light, for it makes
soft both the shadow & the work, like a harsh light makes 
a harsh work.

 061v
Water  to give light for the painter 
Distill some vine water  & put it into a big
bottle . And behind this, put your candle , & it
will not hinder your vision.

German chassis 
Germans  who work in miniature make chassis  not of
glass , but of canvas  smeared with clear turpentine
varnish , namely half turpentine oil  & almost
half turpentine , because this light, which is not as bright
as glass , makes them see larger features. And when they want to
make something subtle like veins de   & similar
things, they use pinceaulx  composed of two or three
rat whiskers  .

Azur d’esmail   in oil 
One needs too choose the most beautiful  delicate that
will be possible, for if it is coarse one cannot work with it in
oil . And if you do not find any that is subtle enough, you can
grind it well, not with water  but with oil , & grind it
thickly. Next lay it on your palette  & mix in a little
turpentine , but not much, to give it a bond, and make it to be as
thick as butter  or mortar , & then, with a fairly
large pinceau  , work it by always moving the
pinceau   back and forth. Then, to soften it, hatch
across it in a jagged manner with the  the tip of the
pinceau  . The highlights will be made with
d   the same thinned with ceruse ,
which, giving it a bond, makes it easier to work. I have seen it used
thus. It must be very thick, & such that you all but struggle to
spread it with your pinceau  . And it is all the better
if you lay down your panel. All these difficulties do not arise when it
is very subtle & thin without being ground, and does not run.
Azure  wants to be layered neatly, which is why
quan   it always dies somewhat when layers it over
old, already tarnished, azure  to mend an old panel. In such
matters, it is better to scrape off the old layer & prime again,
then put down the azure . It is thus for almost all other colors.
Also, azure  ground with oil  always remains shiny, which is
not a good sign for azure  for this causes it to die.

Grinding colors
A slab of marble & p  glass a
glass  thumb  thick  is more appropriate
than anything else for grinding colours neatly, especially for
lake  & for whites.

 062r
Perspectives
Perspectives in oil take a long time  because of
several lines that need to be done with a ruler , and for this
reason one usually does them in distemper . One takes the points
at  one’s discretion. The main thing in having the knowledge
of the point. One usually makes two or three of them, sometimes
five.

Ochre 
It is put for faces, hair, skulls and rocks.

Distant people and animals
One first does them roughly in gray or in purple, which is made of
cendre d’azur   & lake . Once dry, one
highlights & finishes with flesh tones & other colors &
white. And it looks better & is sooner done than in white &
black. Armies  are painted thus.

Drawing
After you have primed your panel & scraped with a knife 
to render it quite even, you will start drawing with the longest piece
of charcoal   you can find, for with a short one you would
not see your line so well & would do it more roughly. Let the tip of
the charcoal   be thin, & in order not to render it
dull & blunt soon, drag the tip flat, thus you will constantly
sharpen it. Also, hold your charcoal   as far at the end
as you can, & do it  & accustom yourself
af   make a light line. For if you accustom yourself
to drawing delicately with charcoal  , you will do
likewise with colors. And he who is rough with charcoal  
is never excellent with colors. And by a line of charcoal ,
masters  pass judgement on their apprentices . First
make the outline of your drawing, that is the contour, lightly &
without any too scrupulous work, but boldly. In so doing, you will teach
yourself to be an artist , and if you need to to undo
anything, you will not waste as much time as if you had elaborated it.
Next re-work all the distinctive lines, & do not keep too close to
your panel, but occasionally step away from it to better judge the
proportions. Once the first drawing seems good to you, retrace all the
lines with the pinceau   in rose color or another color
in gum  or distemper . Thus you will work more confidently
with colors, and with less effort .

 062v
Drawing
To become an artist , one needs to draw by
eye  , without compass  or ruler .
Masters  do not allow apprentices  to do this.
When the priming has been long  done, it becomes greasy.
One needs to rub it with ash  & water .

Perspective
To know the point, one needs to lay down a ruler  over the
lines, & at the intersection of these the point will be. Some make a
hole at the end of their rulers  to fix the point by that hole
& move the ruler  about. Others lay down a ruler 
across the panel, then on this laid-down ruler  they set the
tip of another ruler , which, attached to the former by way of a
screw , moves about & reaches as far as necessary without
losing the point. The ruler  and compass  without the
judgement of the eye   cause errors. Perspective is very
difficult.

 


To paint perspective in oil , you ought not to use a
ruler , for you would smudge everything. But when layering your
colors you need to keep to the  & follow the lines of your
first drawing.
Also, to make plumb  lines , which go from the top
to make vif   to the bottom of the panel,
you need to have a thread   with some piece of lead 
attached to one end & a little hook  to the other for
hanging the said thread   from the top of the panel.

 

Panel
To draw & layer the colors, especially in oil , you need
to hold your panel as upright as you can on the easel , for if
it is slanted there is a danger that some dust & dirt might stick on
it. Keep clean & without dust the place where you paint.

 063r
Amaranth  color
Although it is said to be immortal, it is nonetheless the case that
white wine  removes its tint & turns claret-colored, &
next the dried flower  ends up white. Note that thus wine ,
& I have tried it. Eau de vie  does as much.

Drying of oil 
If the oil  does not dry out, put in massicot  &
minium . There is no better oil than walnut  , for
it does not dry out too soon nor too late.

Casting
The Germans  use lead from Flanders   because
it is very soft. And to cast better they take lead ore  & melt
it, & separate what is melted from the from the filth  &
ore , & pour it into a separate vessel , then the
bottom  they cast with it. For the lead  must not have been
used in works before, but rather completely new. Some cast into
molds of iron  & copper  .


or new lead  coming from the mine . They melt it twice
in a crucible . In the first one, they cleanse it of
filth . In the second, they en  cast.

Shadows
German painters  make their shadows on flesh
colour of people with ground jet , stil de grain yellow 
& ochre .

Bistre 
It is only used in distemper , & with this wood color is
made.

Verdigris  and another very beautiful bright green
One ought not to grind it with water  alone, for that makes it
die. To render it beautiful in distemper , some grind it with
vinegar , but that makes it turn pale & become whitish. To
render it beautiful, grind it with urine  & leave to dry.
Then, whenever you like, grind it with oil . And after you have
collected it with the spatula , before finishing to clean the
marble  , grind stil de grain yellow  on it. And you
will have a very beautiful green.

 063v
Velvets  and blacks
One needs to make  the middle  main layer very
d   dark, & the folds & highlights of the same
very bright with white, & on the edge of its light, you make a white
line. For blue & green velvets , you highlight 
touch with shading of peach  pit  black which is very
black. For lake , black of charbon de pierre   which
makes a reddish black on lake  for velvets  . The
common charcoal  makes a whitish black.
P  
Armory
Soft wood charcoal  appears bluish. It is good for making
armory.

Stil de grain yellow 
Is made with broom flower   boiled well in
water , putting in enough alum , then ceruse .

Red copper 
Some with chalk , but the best has its body with ceruse 
& brazilwood  dye 
.


Flanders  blue
In the month of May , one puts the cow 
dung  to putrefy under horse  dung . Then one mixes
with floree  .

Snow-covered landscapes
Only three colors are used for it: white, black &
bistre .

Softening
If you have worked & made your ground layer with some
desiccative color, such as minium  & similar, finish softening
while the work is fresh, for if you were to wait until the next
day , it would be dry & you would not be able to finish it
neatly.

 064r
Working neatly
Never put down, if you can, two colors one on top of the other. But
after you have made your design carefully, keep the space for shadows
alone by themselves & for the lights & highlights individually
as well, without layering a color all across & then highlighting or
shading on it. And in this way, you further your work, economise your
colours & work neatly, which is the reason that, the colors not
being muddled nor mixed together, they do not die & you soften the
colors better, since they are not so thick.

Fatty oil 
It is not good for working with colors because it makes them thick,
& as difficult to work as azur d’esmail . Use, then, the
clearest walnut  oil  that you can, & the
freshest.

Vermilion 
One ought not to keep it in water  when soaked ground  with oil  for it loses its color. It is better
to choose whitish vermilion  than dark & blackish. For
vermilion  is usually mixed with a little lake , without
which it would hardly be different from minium . But the pale kind
one casts more vivacity than the dark one. It is not desiccative, &
for this reason one mixes in calcined cristallin  .

Oil  colors in water 
Usually, after grinding them one puts a fo   piece of tin leaf  on top, & one puts
them in water  to prevent them from drying out. But this is more
appropriate for ceruse , lead white , minium  &
massicot  than for the others, for lake  dies there &
loses its color, as does azure vermilion .

Double layer
Verdigris   does not die, & thus does not need
to be layered twice. But lake  & others, & especially
flesh color, the  require two layers. Colors hardly change
when they are dry.

Yellow ochre 


One needs a little of it in every flesh color.

Softening


One softens in the same way on oiled paper  as on wood . But
it is easier to soften on canvas , because the softening must be
rougher on it.

Eye


Every eye must follow the circle of the compass  & not be
flat & square.

 064v
Apprenticeship of the painter 
First, one gives him an egg  to do in which one has him make
half a face, then a whole one with the ears, next the neck, then the
parts of the body separately, next joined, then one figure, then two
& three, finally a history, teaching him how to hold the
charcoal  by the end, & also the pinceau  .
Once he knows how to draw, one teaches him how to layer colors.

One also presents him with these strokes & lines
C  T he figure of the egg  is the
main pattern for faces and for bent bodies , as the cross is
the model for a straight & whole figure. Without these strokes you
will never do well.
 
Softening
To soften well, one ought not to layer the colors thickly, but
rather layer them twice, except for azur d’esmail  .


All colors that have no body in oil  have none in
distemper , and  but in distemper  they sink to
the bottom. Distemper  colors want to be greasy, which is
recognised when they gel on the palette  once distempered in
oil .

Straight lines
You can use the ruler , but do not lay it flat on the panel,
but as if lifted off, & resting on the edges of the panel. Otherwise
you would smudge everything, & also you would not see the stroke
well.

Distemper 
Distemper  colors need to be kept  darker
pr   while you temper them, because they whiten
while drying . But oil  colors remain the same in color.

 065r
Shadows
 Because blacks make in different colors, some a reddish black,
others tend towards blue, and others towards green, choose those which
tend towards yellow to make beautiful shadows in oil , for shadow,
especially that of men, is yellowish. And for this effect use very
strongly ground jet , which you will mix with a little
yellow  ochre  & lead white . Or else, after
you have ground your lead white bro   and
clean p   gathered it with the  , grind the jet  into it. Thus it will be more
desiccative, & making on its own a yellowish black. A little white
mixed in renders it perfect for men's shadows. Blacks which make a
greenish black are appropriate for women's shadows. Take, then, some
black of  , a little sap-green  & bistre , &
you will have a perfect shadow for women in distemper .


The powder of orberé grain   is darker than
umber  & when you lack umber , the said powder will do,
but it does not have body.

Flesh color
You must know well the mixing of colors & the appropriate
shadows, but above all make sure to soften them well. And note &
observe that a thing which appears flat needs to be softened lengthwise,
as if going from lett re a ga   right to
left like

 

, and whatever ought to appear round must be softened in circles.

Mirror 
When you make flesh colors, it is good to have a
cristallin  mirror  , which represents
well after nature, and in which it  you will see if your
shadows are soft enough or too crude. But do not look at it with a
candle , for firelight  will make the shadows reddish.
The painter  also teacher himself with the mirror ,
for he sees in it what the natural can do.

Greasy colors
If some part remains shiny and does not seem dry after the layered
colors have penetrated, it means that this part is greasy, & that
the second colors one layers on would not take on the dry
layer , unless you rub this part with soap  or breathe
on it, because the humidity will make the colors take.


One cannot layer oil  on cut paper  & model as in
distemper  because the colour would run. Thus, to gild  with
or mat  , one needs to pounce & then layer the gold
color  with the pinceau  .


All greasy colors, such as ceruse  and minium ,
massicot , ochre , lead white  are good for making
gold color.


Any color or thing that thickens when water  is put with it when
it is being ground has body. But those that lack it, such as
cristallin  , lake  & become clear.

 065v
Semi-lively colors
When colors a  absorb into the canvas , it
means that it has been primed only once, & for this reason they
become matte without being  shiny. But this is the best way,
as long as you re-coat it twice, for in this manner, the colors, having
more body, do not die & are all the more beautiful for it,
especially azure  ,lake  & those do not have body. But
those who want to rush their painting prime twice on the first go, to be
done with it. Thus the colors do not absorb, also they will not last as
long. The second layer of these does not absorb & remains
shiny.

Painting large figures
You need to put your charcoal  at the tip of a stick 
such that you make your first drawing from a distance because up close,
you would not be able to judge proportions as well as from a certain
& sufficient distance. Also, when you paint up close, hold your
charcoal  at the farthest end, & practically with your
fingertips . For in this way you will acquire an
artist 's l  touch & give your hand 
effortless facility.

Glazing
One usually glazes with colors which do not have body, such as
lake  & verdigris . However, to use other kinds, one
mixes in plenty of calcined & crushed cristallin , which also
has no body & makes  lightens their thickness.

White and black
It is good that an apprentice  should work with white
& black for two or three years  to become an
artist .

Lead white 
It does not die & has a lot of body.

After nature
There are some who paint after nature on oiled paper , &
if they do not finish in one go, they put their paper  &
unfinished picture in water  so that it shall not dry.
Illuminators  painting on paper  temper their colors
with gum  & mix in a little soap  to make them run
better.
Painters  must all learn how to draw after nature, for to them
it is travel provisions & revenue & sure means of earning their
passage when travelling across the lands with only their
cocon  .

Priming layer
One needs to be quite careful about this, & not do it, as some
will, with gold color which is made with the washing water of
oil pinceaulx  , because verdigris  &
other corrosive colors which are in it will in the end cause the death
of the colors that are meu   layered on next. It is
good to do it.


with ceruse , & a bit of yellow ocher , &
a little massicot , & make it not too thick so that it does
not crack.

 066r
Double layers
The Flemish  & those who paint panels by the dozen only
make one layer & finish at the first go. But the colors soon die.
And when they are layered twice, they do not die. One needs to layer
them lightly & not very thick, to soften them well.

Shadows
For women, asphaltum , umber  & a little
lake .

Painting in distemper  on wood 
Because it is very tedious to paint in distemper  on
wood , and because one is at great pains to make a good
a  face on it, some thin their colors with egg glair 
passed through a sponge , or mixed with the yolk ,
water , & thoroughly beaten with the skin of the fig
tree  . With this | they paint & soften on the wood ,
as with oil , and this supports the varnish , but this does
not last.

Colors in oil  that are imbibed
It is best that colors in oil  are imbibed, that is to say
they do not remain shiny after they are dry, for they do not die. But if
in some places they are shiny, it is that the fattiness of the
oil  has remained in that part which would make the colors die.
The varnish  mends all this & unites & renders it similar
in one place as in another.
One needs gold color to be laid down thick, for if it is clear, it
would be imbibed & would run.


On canvas  & in distemper , one gilds with bole 
& honey  & a little garlic juice .

Gilding molding for panels with or mat  
see the other side of this folio this mark: * 
The Flemish  give one layer of colle à
destrempe   on the moulding, then mix lamp black  or
soot black  with the same colle   & let dry.
Next they pounce some moresque  in the corners & paint it
with minium , massicot , & ochre de ru  ,
and a little yellow ocher  , mixed with fatty oil 
in which they clean their pinceaulx  for oil  ,
because the three aforesaid colors are gripping & dry immediately.
Next they lay down the gold , then varnish on top of all. And it
seems to some by this means that all this black is painted in
oil , but it would not be good because the gold  would
attach itself everywhere & not only to the moresque . Go
back to the top to * 
* Or mat   


It is made with massicot , minium , ochre de
ru  , & yellow ocher , so that the composition
resembles gold . Gild the day after un
jo   it is laid down if you in the  made the
groundlayer the evening  of the color. After having gilded,
let it dry & rest one day  , next rub the gilding
with a feather  & cotton    in order
that no burrs remain, then varnish with Flanders 
varnish , which you make mixed with a little eau de
vye  , to render it desiccative.
The varnish  will be dry in an hour  . It
will increase the color of gold. And this or mat   holds
in the rain , even if one rubs it. But it must be well dried
for eight or ten days  .
Gold color that is made of different colors cleaned from
pinceaulx  for oil   is not so good, & with
time , tarnishes the gold because of the verdigris . One
must not touch with a finger  the layer made for 
the gold because that will keep it from attaching itself. The or
moulu   is spoiled if water  touches it, but the or
mat   holds well in the rain  & in water .
One must not burnish it, because the tooth  would remove it.
Gather the burrs & small flakes that the
cotton    makes lift off when the gold  is
dry & you clean it, for an ounce  is still gold . In
Flanders , women make gild . It is more
beautiful when it is a little thick, but in France  they beat it
too delicately.
Breathe on the gold color, and if it tarnishes, it is dry enough,
but if it does not receive the vapor of the breath, it is not
enough.
One must not gild or mat   after with 
having gilded . But wait one day or one night , But
take heed to not  and when it appears as dry, it grips the
gold , next one varnishes.
 
 066v
 

When gold color starts to grip, it is a sign that in ten or twelve
hours   it will be dry & appropriate for
gilding .
* 

To make or mat   beautiful, put in a little varnish 
or fatty oil , not from that which is made from the cleaning of
pinceaulx  , but the pure, which is made fatty in
the sun  or mixed with ceruse .
Or mat   of this sort is scarcely less beautiful than
es  burnished gold  , and lasts
longer in the rain , & besides, & is made sooner.
Burnished gold  is cracked with time  & comes apart
in the rain .

To prevent teats  from swelling d  or to diminish overly large ones 
Take large loaves of bread freshly drawn from the
oven   & split them in half  &, as hot as may
be done, apply them & they  & do this 3times a
day   & continue 4 or 5 days  .
Next, make a plaster with Venice  turpentine  or better,
common turpentine . Mix in sumac  ,
sloes  from bushes , quince  seeds ,
pomegranate  flowers , olive tree  leaves ,
& the like, boiled, & mix with the turpentine . But, I
forgot, one needs, after having applied the hot bread , which
softens & makes one sweat, to put on linens soaked with water
from a honey beehive  , that is to say honey  &
wax  extracted all together from the honeycomb.

For attracting pigeons 
Fry hemp  seed  in a pan  with oil 
& give some of it to the pigeons .

Against bruising of the eyes 
At night , apply very thin sheets of lead . Singular
remedy.

Pinceaulx  
To make them well, cut the hair from the tail of a
squirrel ’s fur , as much in one go as one can hold in a
card  folded up into a small tube . And putting it thus into
the aforesaid folded card , tap it  & shake
it  such that the hair  gathers together & becomes
of the same length. Put one or two bristles of a rat ’s
whiskers  in the middle, then, grabbing it with the fist &
pinching it well with the thumb  & index finger ,
thoroughly dip the tip of all this hair  in water , then,
moving close to
 
 067r
 

light, pull out the hairs  which make the tip too long with the
ends of your fingernails , and this until the tip seems good to
you, & and until you notice in it the rat  hairs 
which are entirely black & the hair of the
petit-gris   is at the  whitish from the root to
the middle. When it pleases you, bind b   and tighten
it very well with a thread  in two places, then cut the excess
& fit it in a quill  of a convenient size for it, of a
duck  or a crow  for the small ones. Good
pinceaulx   are those that, once soaked in water ,
do not bulge when you trace on your hand .

Oil 
All oil  which is imbibed by paper  & once heated by
fire evaporates & leaves the paper  clean, like
turpentine  & spike lavender  oil , is good for
making varnish .

Sand
Everything ground & tempered becomes porous, according to
some.

Bellows furnace 
Before you put in the metal , it is necessary that it be red
at the bottom, like like a charcoal  & well inflamed. Next,
you    fill it & cover the charcoal  &
adjust the bellows , otherwise the metal  on top would
melt as a result of the bellows  & its bottom would be
curdled & cooled & would not run. But if you proceed in this
manner you will melt everything you like.

Varnish  on paper 
The Germans  make boxes p  covered with painted
paper  & varnish it with glair of the egg  mixed with
gum  & a little oil , not of spike
lavender  , but another odorant  that resembles
olive  oil  . Every work done with glair 
supports oil . It is with this that painters  trick the
poor peasants , painting their bands of taffeta  with
this glair , to be done sooner. But the first rain 
carries away everything.

 067v
Files 
If they are not trempées à pacquet , that is, in the manner
described, with soot , salt , & vinegar , they
will not be good. The square  large square files  used
by locksmiths  for their rough work are only made of
doulx  iron , But the soft files  must be made of
steel . Founders  whose work is to repair latten 
& copper  must have their files d  
coarse otherwise they would fill up with the copper  which would
make them smooth & soon render them useless. Latten , which is
more brittle, welcomes softer files  than copper 
does.

Oxen  foot bones for sand 
Once having been burned well twice & pulverized, they mold very
neatly in sand & need not be reheated, but simply heated with the
flame of straw . But if you mold them in a noyau , give it
its first layer, simple & very thin, with a
pinceau  , & leave to dry at ease. Next fortify the
following layers with wadding  mixed with the said tempered
bone sand .

It is the neatest sand that can be found for copper .

Huiles d'essence  
Walnut   oil  mixed with as much of
turpentine  & distilled by an alembic  renders an
essence whiter than common water . But this has no body & does
not give a bond for colors that are immediately imbibed, and then leaves
the color without stickiness and faded. These, imbibed in this way,
would not let you work or soften, no more than in distemper . But
you rectify this fault, by giving it a little body with
turpentine , not at all so thick as for varnish. And thus you can
work with azur d’esmail   & will make a perfect
lead white . Turpentine varnish  made with this oil 
is dry in one hour  .

 068r
Fanciful tables
You can make various grooved compartments & on these, paint
fishes  naturally & with color on simple
carton   & if you wish, on silvered &
burnished  paper  to represent the scales. And next, cover
them with very clear lantern horn . You can apply the very same to
other works.

Planting trees
 One needs to plant them in a dry place  dry weather , & plenty of earth  gathered at the
foot all around, like a mound, so that the rains  do not fill
the holes & drown the trees.

Casting
I have tried four kinds of sand for lead  & tin :
chalk , crushed glass , tripoli  & burnt
linen , all four excellent. But as for the chalk , it needs to
be of the softest kind you can find, like the Champagne  one
that painters  use . It releases very neatly, does not need
to be moistened with magistra  or anything else, but needs to be
completely dry, in its natural state, finely pulverized. The first cast
is always the neatest, however it will well withstand two or three. But
there is only the first one that you need to take heed of, when you want
to remake your box mold  to take new powdered chalk  that
has not yet been used for works, for the one previously used in the box
mold has dried out & has no stickiness & bond like the fresh
one. Crushed glass  can be made from common glass sand, however
cristallin  is more excellent, for common glass  contains
glass  salt of saltwort  only, but
cristallin  contains both salt of tartar  &
saltwort  all together, which both help fusion, the glass 
once calcined & reduced to as if to its prime substance. In order to
calcine it perfectly, throw your glass , lumps of whichever sort,
among the largest possible lit charcoals  that you can, if you are
lacking some other t d e foeut  violent
heat source. And when it will be well red, throw it into
water .
Putty  is considered excellent for these two metals .
 
 068v
 and immediately you will be able to crumble it between your
fingers   and to easily grind it in a metal 
mortar , or better yet, in an iron  one . Next, it
will be easy to grind it, not only  on common
marble  that would corrode , but on
porphyry  , and it is necessary that it be finely ground
with water   so that when putting it on your
fingernail  , you find it soft without any asperity like
the colors that the painters  grind for oil . You can
use au lii   this one, once dry, in a box mold instead
of sand, without moistening it with anything nor reheating it. If you do
not like it, fumigate the cavity with sulfur  smoke or de
p   with the tip of the flame of a wax candle  
that barely makes smoke, and it will make a very neat & shiny &
polished work, in pure  lead  & tin . I would
say the same for finely pulverized tripoly  that does not want to
be not  reheated or moistened. Burnt linen  gives less
trouble than others, because it does not need to be reheated, nor
moistened, & molds and releases  very neatly &
very , subtlety & releases well  neat, like the
previous ones & withstands several castings. First you ought to burn
it with a flame, then leave it to rest & to be consumed with its
fire until it is completely dead, then finely grind it on
marble   or on a paper  . But because a
lot  And if you reheat it in a crucible , red hot due to
the fire, to render all of it fine & impalpable, I believe it will
be even better. But because a lot of linen  is reduced to very
little when burned, if you want to save some, you can sprinkle only the
medal that you want to mold & cover it, and fill the box
mold  with crushed slate , which molds also very neatly, but
note that the first cast is always the most beautiful & the neatest.
If you cast at your convenience soft tin  that seems to be
burnished in little wheels that pewterers  sell, comes out
very neatly & approaching the color of silver , without mixing
in anything else, it is true that one ought to cast it rather hot, &
so that the molded object should be four fingers   away
from the cast. In order to know its heat, first melt it well, so
hot with such a degree of heat   that it
promptly burns a paper   or straw   placed
inside, by simmering. Then remove it from the fire & leave it to
rest a little & cast the tin  mixed


 
 069r
 with half lead  comes out almost better than tin
pure  or   or pure lead , even
though in any case they come out well. Nevertheless take care not to
cast lead  not as hot as tin . In big works it is necessary
to moisten the sands with magistra  or egg white .

Joiner 
Three things take the longest, leaves, hair & garlands.

Sand
You should not choose for casting the one that is in any way lean
& arid, such that it does not bind at all, like the one from the
sea   or desei  from sandy
paths  dried out by the sun  . But choose 
them or in t   preferably from
quarreries  ries  or rock caves ,
because that one is best, as long as it is very fine. You will know the
vein if, in the greyish rocks  or quarries qu   that seem to be made of arene  ,
you see after rainy weather  , certain little
amounts like dust attached to the said rocks , or if a little
piece flakes off, easily crushed between your hands  ,
due to humidity. You will also find it in lean soils , which comes
off in lop   large lumps like stones of
tuf  et ne  , or among terres
boulvènes   , which are much better than those from
fat & strong earths . And one ought not to take it from the
surface, for fear that it be mixed with common earth , but three
or 4 feet   below & the closest to the
tuf   or stone . Since it comes out in large lumps
one would say it starts to form itself in stone. But when it is wet, it
comes apart easily. One needs to make sure that when breaking it up it
is well granular, & that when crushing it between the
fingers  , it renders itself really very fine, like
impalpable , keeping nevertheless its asperity of
arene  , without muddying  the
fingers   like clay . It dries up slightly on the
fire, then it disintegrates & passes finely through a double
sieve  or a linen  sleeve , then takes moistures with
wine  or magistra  & @ / Verte 

The Toulouse molder  reheats it strongly then grinds
it finely on marble   and passes it through a
linen   & moistens pass   it with
wine . He makes the cast very broad & ne  
flat & barely deep. He casts pure latton used for scales 
& similar thin things. He casts very hot.

@ Try calcined vitriol .
 
 069v
 The sand near my area  is very excellent. But one ought
to, in order to make an excellent work, take it fresh, which has been
used. For it dries out after having been cast several times & is
lean & has no body. If you cast some fine work which has hardly any
thickness, it is necessary that your substance of copper  be very
hot so that it penetrates & runs. Some mix in lead  with the
fonte , but it is for large works & not for small ones.
Sand from oxen  feet twice-burned & finely ground 
melts more neatly with copper , & without a chappe ,
than sand that I have seen. I have cast a high relief medal with it, and
f   with a thickness as delicate as a knife 
blade or a card . And being a hollow on one side, opposite the
relief which was on other side.
It is necessary that lean sands  be more moistened than
others, namely with magistra  or good pure wine  or
boiled wine with elm tree  roots  & similar things.
But very fine sands , like burned linen  which is fat &
soft on its own, want to be applied dry.
All moistened sand wants to be very beaten & stirred in order to
be ground finely \& to flatten out the clods that it makes in itself
when it is bathed.
The olive  oil  that some mix in with beaten egg
white  makes it become porous.
Sand of calcined glass  withstands several castings, but there
are only the first ones. It also becomes porous.
Latten  comes out on its own, but it runs too quickly. It is
good to mix it with a little copper , like a quarter
part , with the substance of skillets .
Founders  cast well box molds up to 30 or 40 lb ,
but not more.

It is good for big work, but for small ones it is troublesome for
releasing. Il   because it crumbles. It is good that
it be alloyed with some fat thing which has bond such as molded
tripoly  or ab  burned felt  or sal
ammoniac  or tripoly  & similar things.
 
 070r
 When you have molded, it is good to reheat your mold on the smoke of
the substance you are melting, because the cast absorbs the quality
oe  f  the metal , which runs
afterwards more easily in something that comes from it.
Human  bones  are the best for casting once
calcined.
To cast neatly, it is necessary that your substance be quite hot
& to achieve this, when your substance is melted, throw in some
iron scales , or in powder or otherwise E  , for
it heats copper  a lot & cleanses it of its fat . At the
end, when you want to cast, add some saltpeter , by folding your
additions in a paper   so that others not know what you
are adding.
Sheep  foot bones  are even better than ox 
foot bones .
Oil  & tallow  make it really porous &
crushed glass  & copper  alone.
Cendrée  earth  molds very neatly.
Ashes  do not have enough body to withstand
copper .
It is best not to mix the sands, but fill the box mold  with
one only.
Latten  is always fat, & does not mold neatly. One finds
that it comes out better alloyed with a quarter  of
copper , but it needs to be cast very hot.
Copper  comes out well with a bit of metal . If you mix
in metal  within latten , it will be more brittle & more
troublesome.
A slightly coarser sand has more body.
Sand from corp   rock  is always better,
which seems like tuf   in lumps, which has a beautiful
& very fine grain, & a little fat. One crushes it, then one
dries it in a skillet  on the fire, until it is  stops
smoking, then one passes it through through a double sieve 
& fine, & one molds with it.
Copper  or latten  cannot come out well if the medal does
not sufficient thickness, & if it does not have it, give it some
with some wax .

Some cast through a hole made in the middle of the reverse side of the
medal.

Some wanting to cast large works in latten y  
mix in the sand some crushed glass  to give the earth  some
bond. But it makes it porous, and needs to be repaired.

One puts in lead  for a large work to make it run, but not
not


for  in a small one because it would leave filth  all around
the work.
 
 070v
 Copper is bett  and latten  are proper to
cast & at the right heat when they cast, while stirring them in the
crucible , a very white flame & that the bath is very
liquid.
Some cast in well ground ceruse  , pour
le  ; others in flour  moistened several times with
oil & g   & dried in the
sun .
Others, for casting in lead , old letters of
printers   or types for the setting of letters .
Others put into the tin  or lead  a substance of
fixed quicksilver  which makes it run.

 071r
Amber 
It softens like paste  when boiled in melted wax , and
takes color boiled with fat of a young goat  , for that of
a goat  would make it break, principally if it is glazed.

Bois madre  
The elm  , in its knotty root, has beautiful streaks
diversified with grey and black, and the root of the
maple  , but one needs to chose well the grain of the
wood . One gives the maple   a certain yellow color,
then one varnishes it.

Mulled and sugared wine 


When the English  have a cold, they mull wine  in this
manner. They heat it in a large tin  pot  until
it boils, and when it is boiling up, they remove it from 
light it with burning paper  to know if it is hot
enough . Next, to ignite it entirely, they pour it from one
vessel  into another, as one who wants to beat eau
panée  , and as they are doing this, someone else lights with a
burning paper  what is falling from one vessel  into the
other, such that you would think you were pouring fire. When the
wine  is mulled enough, heat it again a little, adding a few
cloves  & a sufficient quantity  of sugar . And
they dri  drink it as hot as they can to overcome a cold.


The common English  put sugar  in the wine  to
imitate for themselves the sweet new wine  which they cannot have
because, owing to the long sea crossing , the wine  has
lost its sweetness and is clarified before it reaches their
country.

Weary horses 
For fortifying a harried horse , they make it drink some of
the aforesaid wine  through a horn , and it finds itself
disposed for doing an even greater labor.

Eau de vie 
The Irish  do not drink any wine  because they convert
it into spirits , which they use almost as habitually as we use
wine .

 071v
Varnish 
To a half lb  of spike lavender  oil , put in
4 ℥   of sandarac  & mastic,
pulverized subtly  . And first, boil your oil  in a
pot  on a chafing dish , and then mix in little by
little  the aforesaid gums , stirring continually with a
small stick split and quartered at the tip , & when you do
not collect gum  with the tip, that is to say that it is totally
melted & that your varnish  is done. And to render it clearer,
put into the concoction a little lump of camphor . It is true that
with this it is not dry so soon. Heed well that the spike
lavender  oil  will be good, clear & not fatty, otherwise
your varnish  will be worth nothing. You can test it
d   by soaking some paper  in it & heating
it. If the oil , which will evaporate, leaves the paper 
clean, without being  a yellow mark, it is good, if not, it is
fatty.

Sheep  fat
In a certain region of England , the sheep  that
graze there have very yellow fat and are nevertheless just as good as
others.

Spider 
In Ireland , one finds none there, & if one touches them
with wood   that there is, they die. This is why some of
the rich  from England  make their floorboards from
this wood , & by this method, they have no arantelles 
& spiderwebs.

Sand
The cimolée   is very good for casting in
copper , but one ought not take the one from
cutlers  , because it is only sludge , but rather the
one of those who moulent   mold large shears.
Pierres de filieres , which knife grinders  use for
whetting, mold very neatly, once scraped, for lead . It is
commonly slate -colored. One frequently brings them to
Toulouse  from around Carcassonne  .

 072r
Printers ’ letters
Those who make them, mix into the lead  some
nails  nailheads  & old
horse shoes , & antimony  which makes it all
melt. This composition is strong for printing, &holds steadfast. It
runs and is good for casting in lead .

Casting in copper 
It is necessary that the box mold  be well smooth & that
it fits well also on the board  where it sits, so that it holds
firm & does not shift when one moulds. It is necessary that the sand
be clean & well chosen and well reheated, & pulverised very
finely on the marble  , for the one that you want to put
first on the medal, and when molding you press strongly. Guard against
oiling  your medal, for this would make it porous. Reheat slowly
and reheat well, & let cool. Moisten your sand with wine boiled
with elm  root , and cast latten  which comes out well,
namely from the substance of the trebuschets   and similar
thin things. Make your cast broad & even if it is barely thick, it
will not be worse off, but it will enter well in the mold . Cast
from the foot of the medal, so that the face, further away from the
heat, comes out better & sweetened from the violent heat. And if
your box mold  does not have vents, make some
qu   in the sand, which come, from the corners of the
piece, to render themselves into the cast. Cast very hot, something that
you will know, when you cast a little leftover substance in the one
which has already been melted, & if it melts quickly, this is a sign
it is fo   well hot. At that time, invigorate the heat
of your furnace  with bellows  of the right size,
keeping the mouth of the furnace  well covered with some big
copper  tile   or other similar thing,
which should be very red before you cast. When you want to cast, take
your well red mollettes   & the crooked
iron   as well, to clean the charcoals  which are in
your substance. Having cast, rub your work with a latten 
wirebrush . The grindings from sharpening large scissors &
large knives  is very good for copper .


One believes it to be a great secret to add in it
persicaire  , which renders them soft as lead .Try
to extract salts  from it.

 072v
Casting
Lead , which is mortified & weighty, wants to be cast hot,
more so than tin . And when it is not hot enough, it makes lines
in the medal. It Straw  burns in it, provided it is
hot. One can make a solder  so soft & runny that it can be
melted in a tin  dish . It is composed of one
part looking glass tin , one part soft
tin , & another part lead . It runs very neatly
and is cast in leaves, but the work is very brittle & prone to
breaking. The best solder  is the common one for casting well, but
is  leaves certain lumpy points. Alloy lead  with
tin  so that the ingot that you will cast comes out even &
shiny & polished, & without any eyes or bubbles except for a
small point in the middle. And this sign will tell you that there is
enough tin , otherwise the lead  dominates too much. Sand is
good for lead  & tin . The good one is very thin &
fine & lean, which however sticks together between one’s
fingers  . The sand wants to be reheated before being
put to work. And once  to mold with it , it wants to
be very moistened & then reheated, not all at once nor with a burst
of fire, for this corrupts & makes it shrink & crumble as well.
But if you reheat it gently, it renders itself very stiff, once well
moistened. One ought to pass it through a shirt
sleeve   for the finest one, in order to first put some on
the piece to mold.
One makes a solder  with quicksilver but which is white, but it is brittle. Make your box
mold  so that it joins well & that one does not see the daylight
between the joints.
The Germans  cast their leads  very thinly, rather
than very thickly, because it seems they come out better, but so that
are not too pliant, being so thin, they mix a little tin  with the
said lead , which otherwise would fold up like wax .
The blackest lead , so say some, is the best & the softest
& which runs the best. You will know its goodness by rubbing it
with your finger  , which will render it very black
quickly . 
The alloy good for running lead  & tin  is per one
lb  of lead , one lb  & a half of tin aultr  , so that the tin exceeds more than one
part . It is solder  which flows well & that is good
for casting, but it is brittle.


To make the lead  flow well, one puts in a little
quicksilver .


Rub cuttlefish  bone  on a well smooth table  to
flatten it & one against the other & cross the two bones 
with pegs  to mark the place.
Cuttlefish  bone   molds lead  better than
anything else. But try it to see if it needs reheating. One ought
to mold on the back of the bones  & from this side for the
marrow  is more delicate there. 


The bone marrow  towards the tail is more delicate & does have
not as many stripes & molds more cleanly. The shell  which
holds the marrow , once calcined, is good for making sand.


When you cast lead , one ought to cast it cast very
neatly rather  hot, & not at once & shake the
box mold  a little & cast two or three times. However, if it
is cast too hot, it will rise up & swell. When it is very hot, it
becomes blue, let it then pass this color deva   &
rest a little before casting.


Some, such as printers , mix iron filings  or
pins  in the lead , but  in order to render it
hard. But this renders it brittle &not  it breaks under
the hammer .


Take a wirebrush  to clean your molds .

 073r
For making blue varnish 
Take the blue of flowers florey or of
Flanders    & quicklime , and put in around
four fingers   of water , and let it soak one
day  . Take the water  where the said
quicklime  has soaked, and put your blue  with it, and lay
it down on  the wood .

For orange color
Take water  where the quicklime  has soaked and put
terroy merita  , and put them one with the other, and then
set on your wood .

For ridding bone  or horn  of fattiness
One needs to make them boil in quicklime , and it must always
have water , and take a very clean pan . And when they are
washed, make them boil in the ashes of vine shoots  , and
put them inside the hottest pot  you can, and put
verdigris  into the goldsmith's  water 
pot , and leave for the space of some time, and you will see a very
beautiful green color.

For making gray wood 
Take alum  with river water , make them boil together,
then take river water  with bran , submerge the bran 
and beat it together. Take iron filings  & sulfur  &
verdigris  and fuller's earth   , and make
it all boil together, and pound maplewood   which will
have been soaked in water of alum  and well water , &
put it to boil together. All of this will be done better in hollow
sandstone . 

For making bronze  in gold color
Take one ounce  of sal ammoniac  and grind it in an
iron  mortar . Once well ground, take one ounce 
of sulfur , and


 
 073v
 grind it separately. When it is well-ground, take the sal
ammoniac  & grind it together again. Then take one ounce 
of soft tin  & one ounce  of quicksilver , then
melt your tin  & put your quicksilver  drop by drop into
your tin  while melting, & stir with force until it is
powder.

For c   coating it
Take some glue of Partenay or parchment  
and apply it with the white of one egg , then take a little
saffron  and vinegar  and the milk of a fig
tree  , and do a coat again. Then take the bronze  and
apply it on top.

Varnish 
Take two ounces  of spike lavender  oil  &
one ounce  of sandarac . Take a clean pot , &
warm it, & then take it from the fire, and next put the drugs 
inside, and next put them into a vial , & apply it on the
wood .

Another recipe for making varnish 
Take one ounce  of varnish Venice 
turpentine  & one quarter ounce  of perolle petroleum  oil  & one ounce  of sandarac 
& one of spike lavender  oil. 

Color of burnished copper
Take one ounce  of sal ammoniac  with one
ounce  of Armenian  bole  and half of copper
filings  with one ounce  of sulfur  & half a
sestier   of vinegar . Beat all into a small oven
of tiles  and make a small charcoal  fire around it, and put
your pot  into the said oven  for the whole
day  .

 074r
For bronzing  white
Take looking-glass tin  & put it to soak in gum
water  & pound it in a mortar . And next, you will put it
on marble  .

To make vermillion 
Take two pounds of sulphur , and melt it, and add two pounds
of mercury   to it. And if this material ignites, cover
it quite neatly, so that the air does not pass into the pot, then put
everything for some time after into a leaded  pot, into the fire.
In the space of twenty-four hours, you will have good vermillon .



For making varnish 
Take one pound  of linseed  oil , and then you
will put it in a earthen  pot , mixed with a crust of
bread  and three onions  , and put it on top of a
charcoal  fire, and you will cook it on a little fire, so that it
boil for the space of five hours  . You will take
half an ounce  of colle farine  , & you will
make it boil just as before and stir with a spoon . And then
after, you will put in two ounces  of well-pounded
sandarac  & will do as above. And then after, you will take
mastic  & arrabe  i c ,
two ounces  each, which will both be well ground , and you
will put everything together, & will make it boil while stirring
continuously, for the space of five hours  . And then
you will put d’araucq  rock  alum ,
two ounces , & then you will make it boil. And if you add
two ounces  of
l’arable  arabic   to it, if you see
that they are not cooked enough, have it cook more on a low
 
 074v
 fire until it is cooked enough. And pour it into a cloth 
that is woven tight enough . And when you have poured it, let it to
cool a little. And if you see that it is too thick so that you cannot
pour it, you will put a little of the said oil  & you will
make it better.



For making red varnish 
Take vermillion  and make it soak in gum water quite
clear , thus as the other, make two or three ground layers as above.



For making yellow varnish 
Take some gum arabic  & make it tr  
soak with water , then take some well beaten saffron , &
soak the said gum , and make it quite clear, then make your ground
layer on that which you want to varnish, & let it dry, & when it
is dry give another ground layer of the same, & let it dry as before
until it is dry enough. Then take varnish  from an
apothecary . Crush by blows one far enough from the other.
Then wash your hands  quite well & with your
palm   spread your varnish .



Recipe for white gum 
Take white wax  & ceruse  & a little of fine
pitch  very well pounded together, & put it in a small new
pot  & make it melt. And when it will be melted you will
make a palette of wood  of & 
burnish what you want.



Green gum 
Take green wax  with a little of verdigris  and make it
melt as above.



 075r
Red gum 


Take red wax , vermillion , & a little of
resins resin  pitch , as above.

Bronze  of copper 


Take da   some verdet  & clear
glue , & grind it together. Then make a layer on your
wood , and take pin filings , and grind it on
marble   with water , then pour it on the
wood  & polish it with copper .

Bronze  like tin 


Take looking-glass tin , two ounces  of
quicksilver , & melt the looking-glass tin  into a new
pot . And difiant   whenever  it is all melted, put in the  quickaiant  silver  , & remove it
from the fire, & let the said glue  dry. Then take a piece of
tin  & burnish it on marble   with clear
water , and then coat it on the wood , and polish it with a
piece of tin .

For making aquafortis 


Take a demi-setier   of vinegar  with one
ounce  of verdigris , & one ounce  of
copperas  & one ounce  of solle  , then
put them together in a glass  vial .

Or moulu 


Take fine gold  & put it on a quite clean
bu  marble   & put aqua
fortis  & start crushing. Then take saltpetre  & sal
ammoniac , and put it into a shell  which should be large
& washed, to safeguard it.

 075v
For making gray wood 
One needs to take three half setiers   of iron
filings  for xviii s  deniers   of
alung de glace  , & for as much green copperas ,
for six deniers   of verdigris , pitch ,
& a quart  of cuyr  currier 
water , and if you cannot find it, you will put more rainwater    of slight degree. 

For gilding  on wood 
First one needs to lay down a coat of glue very clear , and
once dry, you will lay down a coat of yellow gold . And when it is
done, you will take fig tree  wood , & put it to soak
some space of time, & wash the places you want to gild , and
cut your gold  with a knife  to the price that you will
lay down. And one must lay down the said gold  with
cotton   . And if you can find fig tree ,
take the the white of one egg  & stir it vigorously.


If your gold  does not have beautiful enough color, you will take
a partridge  feather , & make it burn it in a
chafing-dish , and make the smoke go against what you have
gilded .

For gilding  with or moulu  
One needs to take a coquille   of gold  and,
before you want to work with it, you will soak it with gum water 
and lay it down with a pinsseau  , & polish it with
a skin wolf 's tooth  once it is dry.

Recipe for putting all woods  in color
For making it black, one needs to soak it in olive 
oil . And the horn , in a similar case, four or five
days  , & then boil it there where it has soaked
for the space of one hour  , & take it out of the
oil , and take some natural sulphur  or another
 
 076r
 if you cannot find it, and cover the said wood  with this
powder, until it is cool, & you will make it boil again, &
boiling it, one will see if it is black enough or not. If it is not
enough, you take the said powder & put it on the said wood 
while boiling.

For making wood  green


One needs to take one quart  of white vinegar  & one
ounce  of green & one ounce  of alun de
glace  , all mixed together, and you will put your substances
into a leaded  pot  over the fire without taking air,
&then put the pot  in a dung  heap  for
fifteen days  , and once it is out, you will boil your
substances for the space of three hours  .

For making wood  red


Take one quart  of old urine  and three ounces  of
madder  & one ounce  of alung de
glace  , and you will put all in your pot , & and do
as with green.

For making it blue


Take one quart  of urine  as above and one ounce 
of alum  & two drams  of sal ammoniac  &
half an ounce  of pastel  flowers , the whole made
into powder, and do as with green.

For making it violet 


Take one quart  of urine  & one ounce  of
alum  & two drams  of sal ammoniac  & one of
lake , & do as above.

For making it yellow


Take urine  as above and two ounces  of
woad   & one ounce  of fustet  
and two ounces  drams  of sal
ammoniac , & do as above.

 076v
For making very beautiful gold color & of little
expense
First take very yellow orange  peel,  & clean them
well of the white that is inside, & pulverize them very well
and in  a very clean mortar . And take as
much of sulphur , & grind all together, and put everything in
a glass  vial , & keep them in the cellar or
other damp place  for the space of eight or ten
days  . Then when you want to use it, one needs to
warm it and use it where you want, & you will see a very beautiful
color. 

For making black goumiche  


Take some glue , & mix it with vinegar , & melt it
until and it should be very clear. And take lampblack  or another
black & mix them together, then lay it on wood .

For the white 
One needs to take white wax  with ceruse , and melt all
together, & lay it on wood  or another thing.

Gilding iron or tin
First it is necessary to wash whatever one wants to gild in wine
lees, and then wash it once again with white wine. Take three ounces of
terra merita and one choppine of white wine. Boil the matter for half an
hour, and apply your colors over your iron or tin, or whatever else.
Then leave to dry on a sheet of paper and do not put your hand in your
materials.

 077r
Against redness of the face 
Make a small lead  cap & wear it overnight .
Excellent secret. Try a lead  mask.

Medicine  of the orientals  against all
maladies
 Dry rosemary  in the month  of
May , then fill this bowl  with powder  of it, and
put a lit charcoal   on top. And, receive the
smoke  by a quite tightened mouth , and a part will come
out by your nose . But if you want to purge the head 
also pinch the nose . Against colds, rheums, and other
maladies.

Fatty earth 
Founders ,to make the handles of their bells, use it. And
before it is used, they beat it very well, then leave it to dry in
the shade , little by little & for a long time, and mold with
it very neatly. But it must not be areneuse  & ; but rather well chosen & soft.

Recipe for making bronze  and varnish  of many
sorts
For making excellent varnish  with clear water  which
you will use with a pinceau   and immediately dries, for
putting on paper , a tablet, or another piece.
First, you will take five ounces  of eau de
vye   and one ounce  of benzoin , crushed between
two pieces of paper  or card  or in a mortar .
 
 077v
 but it should not be too small, then take    a
glass  vial  not too big and put into it a half of these
two, namely two & a half ounces . Next take the said
benzoin just as roughly crushed , and put it to use with the
aforesaid water  and let it rest for the space of one & half
days  , & then take the said water  &
put it into another glass  vial  & soak it very well.
And on the rest of the said benzoin  that remains at the bottom of
the said first vial , put the rest of the water  over this
and do as before when you see that the case is going well, and mix the
first water  with the second. By means of this you will be able to
help yourself to this for something more noble.

Another approved varnish 
Take two ounces  of linseed  oil  & two
ounces  of huille petrolle   and two
ounces  of mastic , the whitest you can find, and of
alung de glace  , & grind it, and take a little bit of
white copperas , and put all these drugs  together into an
earthen  pot  that should be new, and lay it on hot
ashes  for a bit, and you will see a beautiful
varnish .

Another varnish 
Take huille petrolle   & spike
lavender  oil , as much of one as the other, & mix it
together with copperas , & make them melt over hot
ashes , according to the quantity that you want to make. To lay
down this varnish , put three coats on the work that you want to
varnish.

Another varnish 
Take one ounce  of spike lavender  oil  &
of sang de ra i  y e da Rac   & make
 
 078r
 these drugs  melt in a new earthen  pot , &
when it is melted, you will pass it in a clean cloth  
& you will see a beautiful varnish .

Another varnish 
Take one ounce  of spike lavender  oil  &
heat it over coals , & then take a half ounce  of
sang de  a 
Raie  c   & grind it coarsely, and
then put it into the spike lavender  oil , & then mix
it with a stick  until you see that it is melted, and then put
it in a glass  vial . And when you want to use it, heat it
little by little over the coals . And before laying it, lay a coat
of glue very clear , & then lay it with a
pinceau  .

For making red varnish 
Take vermillion  & soak it with gum water  as well
as with other water , and make it like the other varnish ,
& mix this other water  like the other varnish , and
then lay it down as before to make three green .

For making green tr  wood 
Take very strong vinegar , salt , &
rainwater , and one needs to put it all together with
verdigris , and put it in a new earthen  vessel 
with your wood , & put it in some very warm horse 
dung  for the space of eight or nine days  .

 078v
For making bronze  in steel color
Take alun de glace   & antimony , but one
needs twice as much alun de glace   as
antimony , and pound it together into an iron 
mortar , & then mix with gum water  while grinding it on
marble  , & then one needs to use it with a
pinceau  , & next let it dry, and then polish it
with one tooth of a wolf  or dog  .

For making bronze  in gold color
Take copper filings  &ochre  & gum  &
alum , & grind it all together into a stone 
mortar , and when it is well ground, you will lay it on the work
with a pinceau  , then polish it with one tooth of a
wolf  or dog  .

For making bone  or horn  green
Take verdigris  & mix it with strong vinegar , then
soak your bone  or horn  one hour  , &
then put on work.

For making bronze 
Take filings of pin  & other of latten , & put
it together, & grind it on marble  , grind it well
with water  little by little, until it is distilled, then put them
into some new vessel . And
 
 079r
 when you want to use some of it, mix it with very clear glue ,
& then you will lay it on what you want two or three times, &
then let it dry. But before laying it, lay down on it one layer of
very clear glue , & let it dry, & rub the said
bronze  with a tooth of a wolf  or
dog  .

Making gray wood 


Take some sandstone powder , ___ ___ ___, iron filings ,
ironware , alum , currier 's’ black ,
copperas , & alung de glace  .

 For making water  for pain of the eyes 


Take white copperas , & heat it a little on the fire, then put
it as a powder on a white cloth  stretched over a very clean
glass  , & the powder on top, then take
fountain  water  & pass it through the
cloth , while stirring the aforesaid powder with the
finger   until it has all gone through. Then wash your
y eyes at any hour   you wish
& with the help of God , you will be very well.

For making bronze  in gold color


Take six ounces  of calcined tin  & as much of
natural sulphur  & six ounces  of sal ammoniac ,
and put the tin  to melt in a spoon . When it is melted,
put in quicksilver , and throw it in a line, then crush all these
drugs  together in a mortar ,
&  
 
 079v
 and put it into an earthen pot , & it should have
many hot ashes  underneath, & little by little you will make
the fire underneath bigger and bigger, & one ought not move it,
& when it will be cooked, & it needs to be for six
hours  , mind that the smoke  does not harm you
for it is bad.

For making varnish 
Take some mastic , sang daRage  darac  , gum arabic  & spike lavender 
oil , as much of one as the other, & make them melt all together,
& before coating it, lay a coat of glue quite clear , &
let it dry.

Antidote against the smoke of metals 
In the morning , take a piece of toast with butter ,
& neither antimony  nor any other vapor  will be able to
harm you. Or put half  a pig 's bladder  in front
of the face .

Tin  for casting
They use common tin , which is the one that
pewterers  use to make dishes, which is composed of 9 or
ten  ten lb  of fine lead  for one
quintal  of tin .
Some find that there is nothing better
than fine tin .

Mixture for printers 
Make a layer of pulverized  antimony , & a layer
of latten  & old scrapings or thin plates of iron  or
clo  iron nail heads , and continue in this way
until the crucible  is full. And melt inside a four à
vent  , & then mix a little tin  & fill up the
crucible  with lead until it causes it . And
increase the fire & mix to make the substances alloy well. The
mixture for large letters is harder.

 080r
Mortar
They make them of fine material and fine copper in the shape of
reinforced barrel, and which can hold 50 pounds of powder, and having
made a clean hole in the ground at the foot of a wall, they embed the
said loaded mortar in this hole, with the mouth on top, which will make
a large breach.

Very hard white stucco 
White wax , Venice  turpentine ,
eggshell , & ceruse .

Fountains
 If you wish to raise water  higher than its source, make a
pipe descend as in A. to B. to give it push  , then from B. to C.
make the pipe ascend, but not quite to the height of the source, here
represented by the dotted line, and then make it descend again in a pipe
from C. to D., and then let it rise higher than the line demarcating the
height of the source, and do this successively until you reach the
desired height. Remark nonetheless that the length of the descending
pipe is always twice as long as the ascending pipe. This cone also fills
itself and demonstrates a perpetual fountain which you can adapt into a
rock, attracting the water with which it is filled by the tip here
marked, by sucking and breathing in. You can also make a watering can
pipe in this way, so long as the bent pipe is just as long as the
straight pipe, but does not extend as far down.
  
 080v
Founders of small works @ in
tin   
They usually cast with solder , even the things that should
not become empty, for the latter require fine & soft tin ,
which however would not release, & would not become empty if it was
mixed or had some looking glass tin mix in 
it, just like they put in a little of it in soft tin . They carve
their works on stones of which are made the sharpening stones or
files of barbers  , which are found in great flakes
towards the mountains , & resemble slate . They are three
colors of them: reddish, which is not as perfect as the others because
it does not last as long in the fire & as ,one
dard   of the color of dark slate , the other
whitish. When they have some relief, first they imprint it on
carton   , as thick as one
finger  , to serve as a pattern , then with a
little compass  & little matching iron fittings , they
carve their figures, having first flattened their stones  &
worn down one against the other, they make their p  
molds of three or four pieces, to make a circle or a square which joins
perfectly, because the stones  render themselves even. Before
casting, they rub the mould with tallow , which has quickly
absorbed it because it is hot. Then, taking fine powder of
quicklime  in a linen  , they rub the mould while
beating with the linen   on top, then blow a little on top
to prevent it from becoming porous. The main thing is to make vents. If
the work is big and they make it in such a way as seen here, they pierce
a hole in the part of the medal, that is least visible. And with a
gimblet  they pierce the mold on the side of the medal.

 

And if they want their work to stay pierced in whichever place, they
drive in a piece of cork   at this place in the
mold . And the lead  or tin  will not attach to it.


Make sure the pegs  of your box mold  enter easily so
that opening  it will easily open without shifting anything;
and that your box molds  fit well together; & the table
is very flat . 

Try to carve with distilled vinegar .

Try calcined oyster  shells ; one says that they are
excellent for molding.

 081r
Sand
One can find an excellent one on the little hill  of
Puy David  near Thoulouse  for lead , tin 
& copper . It does not want to be too reheated much because,
drying out all at once, it loses its stickiness & burns at the first
arrival of metal , which makes the work lumpy & not neat. It
is better to reheat from a distance, rather than with a straw 
flame, which generates des   some filth . Before
filling in the box mold , you can put in the finest sand you
have in a very fine linen  , & pound the medal dry and
then the moistened sand that you put on top, which has more body, will
grip it.
Tallow  makes it porous.
Fixed mercury  mixed in when one wants to cast, makes
metal lead  run. But if it is pure, one ought to cast
very hot so that it runs, and vents.

Earth  for molding
Tanner 's earth, or the one with which
potters  make a whitening on pots  to make lead  run
better on them & to prevent the lead  from being absorbed into
them, is very good for molding the cavities of things you want mold in
relief. It releases better than plaster  or sulphur  which
become hard once they have set. For the earth  being ready, one
ought to be beat hard so that it does not crack. If the piece is very
large you can mould it in several parts. If you reheat it, it is
necessary that it be over a closed fire. One finds this earth  at
Fosseret  & in another place called Ox .

Plaster 
It is necessary that it be well heated, which you will recognize
when cooking it in an iron  or metal  skillet , you
mix it with an iron  rod , & if it attaches to the
iron , it is not heated enough, if not, it is good. The
water  with which you moisten should be a little warm & the
mold  made with the aforesaid earth  also a little hot.
The work of plaster  does not last & the faces & delicate
things break if one does not give a coat of glue .

Carton 
One ought to take paper from Florence  , which is the
finest, & crush it & soak it several times & change the
water every day , so that it does not smell bad, &
since you will have moulded it in the cavity, put a
linen   over it, & from the back, rub the back of the
paper  with a tooth , as if you wanted to burnish it, and
it will mould very neatly. Then glue  the cloth  on the back
with strong glue . 

 081v
Sand
Only brick  very finely sifted, & worn down one against
another, is good for all castings of lead  and copper ,
mixed with urine . It is necessary this be whitish
brick .

Making copper  and latten  run
Put in, at the end, when it is very hot and you want to cast, sal
ammoniac  & saltpeter , which removes filth  &
heats it. Mix some ardides   with the latten . @
Guard against the metal  touching the iron  or the
latten  of the box mold , but cover it with sand  or
lute . Make the cast very even.

Sand
Calcined black pebbles from the river   are good for
lead , but they are shaken loose for metal .
There is only   clay earth with which one can
make tiles  , reheated & reddened & passed through a
sleeve  finely moistened with glair .
Willow  charcoal  is excellent for sand for
b  lead .
Latten  runs better.

Casting in a frame 
It is good to make it with boxwood  . Turn it in order
to make it even, as this is important for the casting. Lute  also,
or cover the mouth of the frame  with sand so that the melted
metal , or lead ,or copper  does not touch the
frame ’s iron  or latten , because it makes it
brittle, & makes it porous. Also make sure that the cast is always
higher than the mold . Also guard against the cast being too
wide or too deep because the narrower, the better. For when it is big,
the weight of the substance that runs breaks & shakes loose the
mold  & makes it porous. When you have cast, gently tap the
frame  , so that the substance spreads better. Black lead of
saulmon   from the first melting makes a very neat one.

 082r
 Heat of copper 
It is hot enough when you see it neat & even on top, without
filth .

Frame
Iron  & copper  make it porous if the metal 
touches it, & the wood  warps. Thus, make a mold of
wood , & have frames of bricks  made inside this mold of
whatever thickness that you want.

Glair of eggs 
Glair of eggs  gives strength to sand to make several
casts.

Watchmakers 
To distribute the teeth proportionately on their wheels, they do not
use a compass because there is no compass so fine that it can draw
distances as small as those of the small wheels. But they make a
“platte forme ” (as they call it) out of latten that
has been  divided into various circles, & each of
those  circles  is divided into equal sections marked by
a point. And each circle has a certain number of points , as
for example  one has  30, another 36, others 40
&. Then, on the pierced center of the platform, they place the
little wheel. And on the center of the wheel there is  a flat
line or an alidade which points to the number on the circle that you
want to mark on your wheel. Then with a point, they draw a line on the
wheel. Then they return the alidade to the following point, & they
thus go on marking it the dial . And to mark the points on the
circles of their platform, they divide the circle in three & then
divide this third part into as many sections as is necessary with regard
to the total division of the circle. &, in this manner, they make
the teeth's division & distribution as fine as they please.
 
 082v
Watchmakers 
Formerly, they dipping their springs by immersing them into
molten lead . Today they dip their straight springs, &
afterwards bend them, which is a beautiful secret.

Casting lead  in lead 
There are some who make their cavities with thick lead , then
cast lead  in them.
Lead  when not cast hot enough, is white, & blacker when cast
well hot.


One can make a lead  mold . & to cast in it, fumigate
it with candle soot . But it is never that neat.


Never does Lead  come so neat as tin .

Sand
If it is too fat, one ought to reheat it and sieve it again.

Ways of casting in bronze 
Latten of potin  cor  , which is
the most brittle, molds more neatly, according to the opinion of many
people, than fine latten of skillets , just like all fine
latten  molds neater than red copper . If you want to cast
something fine & thin, the entire secret is to cast as hot as
possible so that the substance boils. You will recognize that it is hot
enough when it smokes a lot and while stirring it throws sparks. To heat
well, place your crucible  as low as possible & at the very
bottom of the forge , so that the bellows fra   beat on the middle of the crucible , for
in this way it is better than on the grill  on which one usually
puts the crucible , under which the bellows  beat. It is
true that the crucible  risks more danger breaking, but you can
lute  it as you know founders  do. And also, one ought
to maintain the charcoal  between the bellows  & the
crucible . Also take heed to cast all at once & not in
increments & drop by drop, which would stop & plug up the
conduit of the substance. And if make in the cast an abreveoir 
to abreuver  the medal, it would be even better. And so that the
substance heats well at the bottom, stir it, once melted, with a
wood  stick , for iron  only makes it brittle.
Turn.


Some put wool stuffing  in order to heat it & make it
run.


Put under your crucible , one large iron platte  , which will redden & will maintain the heat
under your crucible .


The copper  substance is found to be good for casting, when once
broken it makes the grain long & not short, for it demonstrates that
it is soft. It is half fine latten  & half red copper . This long grain is called long stalk.

 083r
Sand @ for lead 
Recipe grey soot from the furnace of the
silversmiths  , quick lime , and
flour,ana  , moistened according to the art, being the
finest possible.

The grey soot of locksmiths  , which is held in the
forge , is very fine once ground, molds very neatly, &
releases very well.

Sand for copper  medals
Recipe hat felt burnt over a covered
fire , dross of iron , & burnt bone , all of which
ground very finely & crushed & watered with saltwater ;
& make a paste of it & mold it, & wipe it over a
straw  fire.  @ These three sands, pulverized and very finely
ground on porphyry  , mold well, and I think that
separately each of them is very good. Burnt hat felt  molds very
neatly and releases very neatly. 
Plaster  molds very neatly but it becomes porous. Bone  has
scarcely any body unless it has iron dross . Felt  makes it
release. 

Another sand
Charcoal of vine  shoots  & clay earth ,
bien recuitte &   well sieved , as much of one as the other, & join them together
with well-beaten eggs’ glair , then calcine in the
furnace , & to use it, moisten it with vinegar .

Another for lead 
Recipe finely crushed slate , &
calcined  pumice stone  mixed together. Calcine them in
a well covered pot , & thrice stoppered over a good fire,
& each time moisten them with varnish .

Another
Recipe p   a tile little baked,
ground  & moistened in white wine  with burnt black
trasse  paper . And if you add burnt horse 
dung , it will be all the better. Moisten with egg glair .
Trasse  paper burnt  over a closed fire is reduced just as
charcoal  & very soft black, molds neatly & makes it
release well mixed with the others.

Excellent sand
Alabaster, calcined  in a crucible  over
charcoal  fire so that when touching it, it turns into powder.
Once cold, pulverise it finely, pass it through a double sieve ,
& and render it as if impalpable. And d   with one
lb  of alabaster , one needs one
℥   of sal ammoniac . Mix well &
incorporate everything together, then put them in a
cellar  cellar  or a damp
place . And with this paste, mold what you will need, & next
dry the mold  in the fire, & cast whatever you wish, while
the sand is hot. And you will cast as neatly as the main one, & the
sand can still be used by placing it in a damp place  &
drying it in the fire.

 083v
A way for molding excellently with water 


Dissolve in damp place  some tallow of glass , and then
place this water  on what you want to mold, having encircled it,
and place it to coagulate on the hot ashes . Do the same with
vitriol  & copperas , which, once well calcined, reduce
in water .



Molding in relief on one part and hollow on the other.


It is necessary to cast two pieces of copper , latten  or
similar metal , very neatly, and then when you have molded the
cavity in the sand, leave the figure of metal  that
you  have molded in the frame , without moving it
from its place. And cast, & if there is not enough thickness press a
little & push the figure down in the frame .


It is good to mold always the faces not on the side of the cast, but
with the head on the bottom, because the force of the substance is at
the entry of the medal, & there, where the force is, the
filth  & grime  accumulate. And, in this way, if you
were mold the face towards the cast, some grime  could be found
there, & it is better that is found on the clothing, which is easier
to repair.
Vinegar  is better for moistening than wine . It is
necessary that the frame  be well smooth and even, otherwise
and that the cast be , as you press on one side, the other one
lifts.


This is why the press  is better, for it tightens evenly, &
more than your hands  , and makes

the lumpy sand , which is damp, communicate its humidity to the
soft & fine sand , which is sprinkled & poncé  dry
on the medal.


When you mold, always leave your medal in one of the frames , is without stirring
it  because, if your cavity is not molded very neatly, you can put
it back in the right place by means of pegs , which will prevent
it from shifting. But, at first, ponce  yout medal with very
fine willow  charcoal , & se   next
clean it, for this degreases it, & makes it easier to release.
Do not knock it when molding because this will shake loose the
frame  & the sand.

Bellows 
To melt with bellows , & hasten your fonte ,
& also cast hotter po  , do not place your
bellows  at the bottom near the foot of the furnace ,
for fear that some charcoal  might you  enters it, put
them almost under the grille  . It is good that your
bellow furnace  be in an aerated place  so that the
wind  might make it heat better, & that it be well dry
& and reheat. One ought to plug the doors of the furnace 
& that there is only entry of the tuelle  of the
bellows . And by the end, one ought to give it a good stoking,
since at the beginning you will blow gently.

 084r
Impromptu mask
Mold some paper  & put it on the face of somebody who is
making an ugly grimace. Let it dry & take your pattern to paint from
it
#  & swellings. It is necessary that it not be
too wet for the above said reasons. Reheat little by little .
And if, after having been molded, you leave it to dry slowly, in some
dry place , & not over a big fire, it would be better, for
when one exposes it all at once to intense heat, it swells. I believe
that reheating it at the mouth of the furnace , after you
have taken the bread out , would be well proper. One ought not
complain about the difficulty of preparing it, for it withstands as many
castings as you wish, because it renders itself hard as marble 
& you can polish it & the mold  cannot be spoiled.
Having been used, crush & sieve  again, yet without being so
scrupulous as to render it very fine, I   for once
passed only through a common sieve , it has more force
than  and releases better, than when it is so fine.

Eau magistra  
Dissolve rock salt  or salt   finely
pulverized sandever  & put on marble   in a
cellar , & it will dry out by reheating the mold ,
& will give it a bond to withstand several castings. Try to
moisten it with tartar oil . 

Flour 
Ground during Advent , keeps for the whole
year .

Sand from a mine in Thoulouse   
The sand from Thoulouse  , which is taken, from the
depths of the earth, from the small hill of Puy
David  , is excellent in itself, but to make it withstand
several castings, I mix it with pulverized sandever  &
moistened, which hardens it, & takes body & bond with it, &
makes it withstand more than five  as many castings as you
wish. Try to moisten the crushed glass   and other
e   sands with the waters of the above mentioned
salts . It wants to be, like all natural sand , well reheated
before putting it to work. One pulverises it, because it is in a lump,
then one reheats it in a copper  kettle  or similar thing,
until it no longer smokes.

It is necessary to reheat it before using it. It is rendered better for
casting because it is reheated, but when it has been used a lot, one
ought to refresh it with new sand.

 084v
Sand 
I tried the bone of oxen feet , very burned &
pulverized  & ground on porphyry  , until it is
not felt between your fingers   . It molds on its
own very neatly. But because on its own it is very arid & lean, it
wants to be well moistened & dampened with wine boiled with
elm  root .
Iron dross , well burned bone of oxen  feet ,
felt also well burned  over a closed fire, and all three very well
ground on porphyry   mold very neatly in lead ,
without needing to be reheated a lot, & casting
le  in a  hot or cold frame .
Felt  alone molds very neatly once moistened & releases
well, and also makes the other two release.

These sands only withstand one casting.

A fat sand  which is rendered very smooth, makes it porous.
A fat metal  needs lean sand .


Eau Magistra  
Some people think that salt water  is not good, because the
salt  cracks in fire, & consequently should make it porous. a
result causes bubbles. There is only wine boiled with elm 
root .
Charcoal for poncer   makes for a good release, but
one finds the one of willow   make it porous. The one
of oak  or beech   does well without making it
porous.

Try burnt oysters  .

Lead 
For casting, there is only soft lead  that wants to be cast
very g   hot, and soft tin .

Sand for lead , the most excellent of all, for high and low
reliefs
 I took ceruse  and crushed it dry on
porphyry  , to make it very fine, then I moistened so
much, with well beaten egg glair , that it was like a paste,
smoothing it perfectly with the dull side of a knife . I left it
a little. 


X

 

One ought to mix it well with a knife .
 
 085r
 to rest on a very clean & smooth table , & since it
is desiccative, I knew it would dry out lor  , what I
let it do in order to reduce it to powder, & molding it with sand,
once broken up with my fingers   & the sharp edge of
a knife . I oiled  my medal because oil  cleans it
without spoiling it. And  And having dried it & cleaned it
with a linen  , & small bristle brushes of
pork  , I once again lightly oiled  it with clear
walnut  oil , & gently passed a linen  
over it, so that it does not remain too oiled , and I noted that,
in this way, it would come out better in release, because the
ceruse , once moistened with water of egg glair , would not
attach to the oil . This worked very well and I molded a medal of
high relief very neatly, without making any stickiness, which a lot of
good sands, such as felt , burnt bone  & iron
dross , had failed to do on the first try. I reheated it & my
mold  became hard like marble , and I realized with this,
that sands for molding high relief should be well moistened with some
water , which gives them body & compactness, like egg
glair , gummed water , ea  wine boiled
with elm root  , & and lightly oil  the medal, it
withstands as many castings as you wish, for it is as hard as
glass . But even soft lead  & brittle tin v   want to be cast very hot.
Since then I have realized that this sand, even though it is
excellent & endures many castings & molds very neatly, it is
however fat and makes things porous. This, soft lead and
the  does not come out so well. But try to mix it with a lean
sand , such as pumice , flakes , & similar things, to
give them body, & so that they release better. For lean sands 
barely release well and yet they receive metal  well.

Try to mix ceruse  or minium  with other sands.
X Oil  & smear with aspic  oil , which will go
away when reheating, for the oil  makes it porous.

One ought to moisten with glair , then mix it well. And once in
the frame , beat it on top with a pestle , or other
proper thing, for this makes it mold better and release better. 

It would be good to fill the frame  all at once, for the
mixture, made of several sands with the one of the
mine  , with which you fill the frame , corrupts
it.

Green varnish  for medals of copper 
Having casted them very neatly, cover them with sel de
verre   that we use for sand, & moisten it, & in three or
4 days   it will be green. Oil them after & keep
them under the dung .

Glue 
The Flemish  reglue their earthen  pots  with
gold color, that is to say minium , massicot , &
varnish . 

 085v
Founder 
They mix beaten egg glair  with earth with which they make
the first layer of the chappe  of pieces, & bells, & all
other pieces , saying that the said glair  makes it come out
d   neatly, & makes it settle, & seats the
substance. In the noyau  for a small work, glair  is also
good.
Rosette  , to come out neatly, wants the mold 
to be a little hot & lead , which was also mixed with the
rosette  , similarly for small pieces.

Mortars 
They should be of the finest material possible. In the same
way , it is better to use copper for a cauldron  than red
copper , because it better resists a blow.
The mortars, therefore, used for grinding are stronger & there
is less danger of breaking them if they are of fine copper . And
for a private home, they do not ring so much & do not make as much
noise as those of metal . It is true that those that are of
metal  ring louder for apothecaries .
Grenades must be made from fine metal 

Sand from a mine  
It wants to be well reheated for great metals . Some burn it
in the furnace  until it is very black, and grind it finely on
porphyry  . Others burn it with asphaltum , @but
when it is too burned, it does not mold so neatly, because it does not
have body, and is too lean. You can give some with tripoly  or
burned felt .

Sand experiments
I have experimented with sand from
Thoulous e  , & after having reheated it well,
twice, in a skillet , I passed it through a fine sieve ,
like the apothecaries ’ double , without finely
grinding it further on the porphyry  , as I have done
previously. I moistened it with wine boiled with elm 
root , and molded with it a large piece of a portrait of
Jesus . I found it easy to release, without having it to knock
on it Jen   & molded neatly with one side in
relief, & on the other in cavity, & of the thickness of a
coin of forty sols   . I cast very hot
X 
Sand from a mine , well chosen & well reheated, is the most
excellent of all, without looking for any other mixtures, because it
receives all metals . It does not want to be used hot, because it
makes things porous. The most finely ground for big works is not the
best, because it does have enough body to withstand
 
 086r
 with the substance of a skillet  mixed with a knob that is
potin  . And before that, I had so reheated my molded
frame , now with the flame of my furnace , now putting
lit charcoals  on top of it, that it became almost red. I let it
cool and cast. It came out very neatly in relief on one side & in
cavity on the other, as well for the figure as the letters. It is true
that the material was whitish, as almost metallic, but this was because
of the potin  . I made another cast with substance of
skillet , alone in the same sand, but not so reheated, it did not
come out well.
Since then I molded the bone of oxen  feet, burned,
pulverized , & sieved  through a double sieve 
& hum  fort   moistened with
egg glair  or wine boiled with elm  root . I knocked
on it moderately while molding. Having undone the opened the
frame , I found that the figures had not released neatly &
left the molds  floury-like & crumbling. I
les   moistened the bone sand  further, so that
it stuck together well in the   between my
fingers  , and in this way, I molded neatly with a good
release. And even though it seemed to me that the pulverised bone 
was lumpy, if there is some substance of skillet  thrown in, my
figures came out very neatly. It is true that I had very very reheated
my frame , it withstood only one cast. I find  that
when a sand is so finely grounded that it renders itself dense as
ceruse  & even, like  without knowing it to be arid,
rarefied, areneux   & rather spongy, that it molds
very neatly, but it does not receive metal  so well, as if it were
porous to absorb the substance. But rather, once fat & even, it
becomes porous & does not receive fine lines. I believe that
the secret  to cast well lies in finding a sand that receives the
metal  well, one for lead , the other for another, for each
one has its particular one. Let it be molded slowly & scrupulously,
and leave it for a few days to become compact by itself, if you have the
time for this. And next, reheat it very well not all at once nor over
with a large fire, but little by little, otherwise it crumbles &
always has some fault. Finally, you ought to cast the copper  or
latten  or other great metals  very hot, & if it
possible in large quantities of substance, which contain more heat than
small quantities. It is necessary that the frame  be cold, &
that you cast all at once. Always lute  the entrance of your
frame , for the metal , touching iron  or
metal , 

This bone  wants to be well crushed in a mortar , and does
not want be reheated because it crumbles.
 
 086v
 becomes porous. Most importantly, make that the cast is always
higher than the molded thing, because usually the sand, being reheated,
swells & if the par ce   in the middle,
& in this way, the molded thing remaining higher than the cast, the
metal  cannot run into it easily or enter at all. Also make sure
that the mold  & the cast are well reheated. Cast also all
at once & out of the wind . And if your medal is really
thin, put a card  , or two or three thicknesses of
paper   , underneath, when you want to mold it. In
this way the mold  will be lower than the cast. Cast also at the
place where your medal will be plus es   the least
thick & where there will be less relief.

Excellent sand for lead , tin  and
copper 
D
Since then, I molded with burned bone , iron dross 
& burned felt , very pulverised & ground finely on
marble   and well mixed together. I moistened them very
well with beaten egg glair . And having covered the medal with it,
as in the others, then filled the frame  with sand from the
mine  , I knocked moderately. I found it to be of very good
release & molded very neatly. I let it sit all
night   long. The next morning , I reheated
it little by little, over the course of seven or eight
hours  (for if possible, no humidity ought to
remain  in the frame ). I cast twice in copper 
alloyed with ☾  , as old
K  . The substance came very beautiful, shiny,
& sonorous , & without a chappe , and my sand
was not corrupted at all. Since then, I have cast with it several casts
of soft lead  & tin , that came out better & more
neatly than any other that I have ever found.
When you mold, make certain lines around your mold , in the
frame , in order to attract the substance to all sides, in this
way.
 Potin  from seringue   & other
co  works, runs even better than fine latten .
But I think that it is better half copper  &
half latten , which have been used & have been in
very thin works, such as skillets & other similar things. I have
this mixture of half  and half  come out well.
 
 087r
 In order to mold well, one ought in a big frame  several
medals together, for when there is a lot of substance, & the
crucible  is almost full, it heats more, & then, if one
medal does not come out well, the other will be good.
It is better to melt in a bellows furnace  than in a
four à vent  , because it gives a more vigorous heat. It
is true that latten  melts well in the four à
vent  , because it is easier to melt than copper , being
more brittle.
Some of the founders   have this superstition,
that only three days a week  are good for melting, namely
Tuesdays , Wednesdays  Thursdays , and Saturdays . The others, for them,
are unlucky.
When you mold, do not knock excessively on the medal, which is in
the sand, because it prevents it from releasing very neatly, &
shakes loose the mold .
Take heed also that the sand does not surpass the edges of the
frame , for it makes the molded medal higher than the cast,
& in this way, metal  will never enter the mold. Therefore,
always make sure that the surface of your casted object directly lines
up with the mold , and to make this effect, if you wish, put a
lump of carton    of whatever thickness you
wish.
Founders  , in order to prevent their large cast
works from becoming porous, are careful to well reheat their molds. And
to know if they have been reheated enough, they knock against it with
their finger  , & if they ring  like a pot,
then they are.
To cast their canons neatly, they  mix their earth 
with some fine casting sand , if they can get any.

Sand from Thoulouse  
The usual bo   good one is the one which is
found in a vineyard  near Puy David  , but the one
which is most excellent is the one is from Touch , near
Sainct Michel  & near Blagnac , in a vineyard
that is high up  . The latter is thinner, & a little fatter
than the other, & better for small works. It does not want to be too
reheated.

 087v
Sand, slate , and burned earth 
Very burnt sand loses its bond. Slate  is reheated & molds
neatly. Next, it is true that often it becomes porous, like burned
earth  also does, like fat sand  also does.

I find that one ought not to knowck on very finely ground sands, for it
shakes them loose, & make  prevents them from releasing
neatly. But one ought to press hard and moisten them sufficiently.

Magistra 
Founders  take the roots of a young elm  
when it has sap, & boil it in wine , or better yet
vinegar , and keep it all year long  in a
cask .

Sand from the mine  of Thoulouse  
 Casting sand coming from the mine , once passed through a
double sieve , next put in with melted resin , burns &
inflames & becomes all red & inflamed like iron . Once
cold it is completely black and can be ground very finely on
porphyry  . Thus having prepared it & render it
without asperity on the fingernail  , I moistened it
with beaten egg glair  & beat it well, until it was not pasty
but rather powdery. I found it of very good release, & molded with
it in lead  & tin  very neatly, but it wants to be well
reheated & at ease.
Others beat it well in a mortar , in small amounts at a
time, & thus it detaches and renders very finely. Then they reheat
it moderately, only to dry it. Then they grind it dry on
porphyry  . And thus it becomes as if impalpable, and not
too dried out, it  and it retains body & bond of the
earth  of which it is related, and is better than when it is very
burnt. Once moistened with egg glair wiped with a
sponge  , it releases very neatly M   very
neatly in low relief, but not for figures in high relief. Therefore,
since then I experimented lexper   with moistening it
only with very strong vinegar . It released a figure which I could
not release previously. And I believe that, moistening the finest in the
same way like with glair  & the lumpiest, to fill the
chasses  with salt water  or wine , that they do not
ally so well. Since they are of the same nature & are moistened the
same, they embrace each other, & hold together one with the
other.
To mold well , after having prepared your sands, mold in
a day . Slowly reheat them the next day , then cast them
on another.



One ought to choose the one which is usually as  in clods
& lumps, well deep in the earth , for usually the one that
is found above  has too much earth , and the deep one is
similar to rock .

I have molded with it in pure lead  very neatly  hot,
& I had as an example the first very neat one, but the
vinegar  hardly gives it any bond, & thus it withstood only
one cast. 

 088r
Visme  
It can be planted, like the bramble , on both sides, &
those who plant the large feet against a slope say that it makes a
larger stump. But it only has a point at the top, for it grows
higher.

Mortars
The fine copper  mortars do not throw any flames, as long as
the iron  pestle is not tempered. If the mortar is indeed made
from metal , when this is sour, in this case one makes the bottom
of large mortars from fine copper .

Varnish 
Turpentine oil turpentine  & good eau de vye 
to render it desiccative. Heat it without mixing on the chafing
dish , so that it mixes pu   by itself when
melting. Next test on a very clean knife , & you will know
then if it has enough body & if it does not run too much.

Grafting
One finds by experience that the graft that est  
has its entrance into the incision on the sunny side takes very rarely,
when it is also bent.

Baker 
Dust  guards wheat against being worm-eaten. And to clean it
well when it is stained & like rust, pass some ashes  through
a sieve & mix them with the wheat , then sift the whole thing
with a bolting cloth made from rough cloth  or canvas . The
ashes  will pass through & your wheat  will stay nicely
yellow & very fine.

Looking-glass tin 
It makes the substance whiter.

 088v
Sand from pulverised rock salt  and sand from the
mine   finely ground on marble  
The one and the other, once very finely ground on
marble  , after having crushed them dry well & beaten
in the mortar , I mixed as much of one as the other, and having
reworked them together on porphyry  , & passed them
through a double sieve  or through the sleeve of a
shirt  to mix them even better, I put them in paper  
& put them on a marble   in a cellar . After
one night  , they had been been moistened enough by
themselves without dampened them further, because rock salt , like
all other salts , dissolves in dampness . I molded very
neatly with it, because both were very finely ground. They want to be
f   humid enough to release well.

Mineral sand
It does not matter if the color is white or yellow. Above all it
must be in one piece, & as if taken from a quarry  or
rock formation , & the deeper one takes it from, the
better. The signs of its goodness is that it is thus amassed, and that
when removing in the form of rock , it comes out in lumps &
qu   pieces which demonstrates its bond, & that it
is not too lean.
However, it should break apart between your
hands    & have very small
men   & delicate grains & of the same nature.
If it is not delicate enough, you can pass & grind it finely, either
through water , or through a sieve , & when
it  or on the porphyry  , & in this way, from
sil   leanness they become fat & well bound. You
can mold with it in a sa  frame  or in a
noyau  without cloth waste , & try it with
lead , for if with this one it does not become porous & casts
neatly, it will also behave well with copper . Some say that the
fat sands  do not want the metal  to be cast too hot.
Artisans who work on big works  & to save time, do not
need to grind & seek the curiosities of artificial sands ,
benefit from seeking some ready made in nature , which has the
finest grain possible, & for small works, they only pass it only
through a sieve . But those who work in small works, finely
grind it & grind it impalpable, because they do not need a lot of
it.

The bled  orbère   makes a tawny powder, very
delicate & very soft, which once mixed could mix  mold
very neatly. Try wheat  flour  burned over a closed
fire.

 089r
Sand of burnt oxen  bone and rock salt 
I pulverised them separately & finely ground them on
porphyry  , as much as I could. Then I mixed as much
of one as the other  & reworked them on
porphyry  . Next I moistened it in paper  ,
folded in a wet napkin , which is made faster than in the
serain  of the night   or in the
moisture of the cellar . And I have not found anything else
which releases more neatly than this one. It wants to be rather humid.
And if you want to cast very thin, make sure it is very hot. It came out
very neatly in soft tin , like the first one, and withstood
several casts. For tin , I believe that it is not necessary to
seek a better one, nor for fine lead  also, which comes out almost
as neatly as tin . Tou   the bone of the foot
of oxen   is always so lean on its own that, without being
mixed with one or two parts of some fat sand  &having bond
such as tripoli , salts , felt , ashes  &
similar things, it would not release, & would not mold neatly for it
crumbles.

Reheating or drying a molded frame 
Always put the most delicate part, such as the face, above, so that
nothing falls in it that could hinder your fusion.

Natural sand 
It does not want to be reheated for lead  and tin ,
m   and is better very new & fresh.

 089v
Sal ammoniac  and alabaster 
Sal ammoniac, well pulverized mou   &
ground dry on marble  , molds very neatly & makes a
very beautiful, & once mixed with alabaster, pulverized 
similarly, ii ℥   per lb  of
alabaster , makes it release well. It sufficient to moisten it in
a cave  or in the serain    or, to
be done more quickly, in a piece of paper   between a wet
napkin . Take heed that it does not stay for too long, for it
would become so wet that it would not be good for molding in a
frame , but rather in a noyau , in which you will be
able to use it well as long as dries well at ease & far from the
fire. Otherwise the heat makes it swell, & push the salt  onto
the surface, which renders it lumpy. You can in  smear the
medal with spike lavender  oil , molding in
noyau . It is better to put in 4 ℥   of
sal ammoniac  per lb , and moisten it in a damp
place  for two or three days  , & so that
when you take fistfuls , it holds together, without, however,
attaching itself & being pasted to your hand  . You
will with it mold very neatly. But let it dry & reheat really well,
leaving the mold  inside, so that it acquires strength by
reheating, for it becomes hard as stone , & and in this way is
more certain to release well. Otherwise if you release before having
reheated it, there would be danger of it crumbling in some place,
because of its delicateness & fineness, even if the medal of high
relief. Once you have molded with it, pulverize it as before and put it
back in dampness .

All sand that releases well has body & sticks well. Ammoniac 
is fat and a va   however, is areneux  
which makes it release well. There is no better bond than salts
appropriate for metals , for once mixed in powder, they get moistened
together & dry &reheat together.

Glassmaker 's white sand from the
mine  , mixed with sal ammoniac 
There is found in Cominge , near the town  of
Aurignac , a sand, white mai  , like
salt , and lean, that glassmakers  &
potters  use, which renders impalpable crushed on
porphyry   & is easy to crush. And once crushed, it
resembles calcined alabaster . It molds very neatly, and I have
not found any that molds as delicately as this one for low relief. It is
excellent to mold en noyau  without a frame, having crushed it
impalpable with gummed or pure water  on porphyry  ,
then placing it, thick as mustard  or a little more, on the medal,
smeared with a oil either olive , walnut , even
better spike lavender  . But to do it better
mo  , let it dry by itself, without fire, for one or
two days  . Although, if you are in a hurry, you can
heat it well, & it will not crack, if it is not put on too lightly.
It is true, being thus suddenly exposed to heat all at once, it makes
some holes & bubbles, which it does not do when dried in the cold or
at ease, rather than being reheated. Once dry, reheat it & it will
withstand several casts. 

 090r
Sal ammoniac  and iron dross 
I have pulverized sal ammoniac , well dried in the fire &
in a hot bronze  mortar , and passed it through the
double sieve , it became very fine. But to render it even
thinner, I have crushed it dry on porphyry  . Then I mixed
it with pulverized & finely ground iron dross , in the same
way, and both mold very neatly things in low relief, without being
moistened in the serain   , or in the
cellar , or otherwise with the napkin , & it
releases very neatly.

Sand
Molders  from Foix  who cast their medals from the
side, use crocum ferri   and calcined slate . It is
for very flat things.

All sands can be rendered good
Artisans who work in big works , & who need to further
their profit, by seeking things already prepared in nature, because it
does not sell its wares to people, and to also save the time they would
use for grinding finely & for artificially preparing sands, seek
the one of the s  mine s  ,
which is not too fat, having some earth  in it, not too lean &
consequently without bond, but rather which is pulled from the
depths of the sand-bed  in mattons  & clods that show
its natural compactness, which is quite difficult to break & which
has a very small & delicate grain, & which is found soft
when handling it between your fingers   . And
because the latter is only found near the rocks in mountainous
areas , or lean territories  & having
arene  , it cannot be found in in the
surroundings of all the bonnes villes   , where
artisans  willingly gather themselves. And thus, if they do
not have it close to their house , they prefer to have it come
from afar, like from Lyon , Venise , Parys near the
Sainct Chappelle  & similar places, rather than prepare it.
However, you can be certain that in all places you can render the
sand from a quarry  .
 
 090v
 good & proper for molding. For if it is big, pass it through a
sieve , and if it is not yet fine enough, wash it, & when
the water  will be a little rested, empty the one which is still
troubled in some separate vessel . The big ones will fall down
quickly to the bottom of the first vessel , but the one which
will have come from the troubled water , placed separately, having
taken residence, will be very fine. And then, if it does not have enough
bond, grind it well dry on porphyry  , & you will
render it impalpable, & which will have bond just like chalk .
Then, if it seems to need it, you will reheat it, & will crush it
again & mix it with salts , or linen, or  burned
felt  or ashes of paper  & similarly washed things.

Terre fondue  of potters  
Grind it in a mortar  mustard
mill   with some water , & and render it impalpable,
dry it & next moisten it with salt water , which gives
strength to u   all sands to withstands several
casts.

Orange trees 
In Italy , those who are in the colder regions, like
Lombardy , make square wooden cases , a little larger at
the bottom than at the top, and thereon affix buckles  on the
sides for transporting them with straps , as one carries gout
sufferers, because the wheels with which one could make them roll spoil
the pathways of the gardens . And every two
years  , they do not forget to open the sides of the
cases  for paring & dexterously cutting, including the soil,
the ends of the orange tree 's roots, because otherwise, as they
find the wood, they contract & fold back on themselves & dry at
the tips, & would make the tree die. But as they are pared, it
preserves for them new space cos  for expanding,
without finding resistance from the wood that inhibits them. And know
that, for this effect, it would be better to join the sides of the
cases  with screws  & not with nails , in
order to not shake the soil  when one opens them.

 091r
Grafting
Every tree that has coarser marrow, the graft  is awkward
to estre   cut well , because there is a
danger of wounding the marrow, & if it is wounded at the point of
juncture, it takes uneasily, like from the vine , from all
peaches  & apricots .
Apricot trees  have a very thin bark, & thus one needs
to graft them onto young trees which do not yet have thick
bark , like on shoots of prune trees  & almond
trees .
The grafts scarcely    take if the cut of the tree is
dampened. One needs then to graft in serain  & mild
weather, & not too cold & windy .
Old wood that one leaves to graft is necessary if one grafts on a
tree that is already made & of good size, because being such, it
tightens the graft more, & if it is from young wood, it is so
compressed that it cannot profit. But old wood resists the compression
of old wood than the young  better, because it is harder than
the young. But if the graft is all of old wood, it will never hold
beautifully, but turns fragile & short & slow to
grow.

Molding with cuttlefish  bone  
Guard against keeping them in a damp place , for they are
well prone to getting moist. If your medal is small, cut the bone 
in two then even it out with a knife . And on a hooked
rooftile  , well dry &well smooth & covered with
pulverized willow  charcoal , rub & smooth the two
half bones  . Thus they absorb this willow 
charcoal , which makes them release them, guard against removing
anything. Then on a counter bone , that is to say a lump of
brick , smoothed to the size of your bone  , place
your medal, & then on this one, place the bone  ,
& press well with some other piece of the same size above. And for
the second time, mold it, but before, ponce  on top with
willow  charcoal  & blow gently, then press as before,
and it will come out neatly. If it is for a spoon handle, one needs two
whole bones  . All cast work is brittle & subject to
breaking, because the metal  expands when cast, & retracts
& condenses when hammered . That is why, one ought to
retrace the cast thing with a chisel , & in this way the
metal  retracts, and let it thus escrouir . If the piece
for molding is of high relief, first trace the mold  & the
cavity with a pen-knife , to make way for the medal & then
mold. And if the medal has two sides
Before casting, heat the
bones   in order to make them lose only the coldness &
dampness.
When the lead  gets too hot, it
calcines.
 
 091v
 since the two bones   are joined,
co   cut them evenly all around, & make notches
e   around it in different places which cross over the
joining of the two bones  , in order to recognize well the
place of the first joining. Or else, with little shards of
wood  , pierce them, or ma   coat the
joinings with some clay , & dry. Press between them 
your hands  joined between your two  knees ;
& not with a press , because the bones   would
burst. Mold also at your leisure & two or three times, until you see
that it is well pressed tightly together & well imprinted. And each
time before replacing the piece, ponce  with some
willow  charcoal , for it makes it release well. When you
have cast, rub the medal with oil  & with willow 
charcoal powder  & with a brush , to make it dull. Guard
against your medal being too greasy or oily , when you mold in
cuttlefish  bone  . When you have cast, leave it
to cool before taking the medal out, for when one takes it out hot, it
brings with it some bone  . And, cast moderately hot,
something you will know when the bone   is about to change
its good  whiteness. But when it is too hot, it really waxes
the bone   red. The proportion  of lead 
& tin  is as much one as the other. If the piece is difficult
to come out, & of several pieces, make the cast forked with three or
four grooves, and make  & direct these grooves to the
place of thickest parts. Also make these grooves around the medal, like
directly on the head, for this attracts the metal  & absorbs
the figure best. Shake your frame  a little when you have cast,
and thus you will make very neatly several casts. Tin  that is too
hot burns the bone  , which is corrupted. Also, once taken
out du mo  hot from the mold , it risks
breaking.

 

 092r
Sand Mixture easy to melt
One ℥  de  part soft tin , one part fine lead , one part looking glass tin  & one part argent vif
arresté   makes an alloy & a solder , so easy to melt
that it can easily be melted in a dish of fine tin  .

Molding a cavity on one side and in relief on the other
And for this effect, one casts a medal of fine tin , which is
harder to melt. And since it is neat, one molds with it. And one leaves
it in one half of the frame , & presses it a little so that
it holds better. And next, you will cast in your frame  some
solder  described above, or another more meltable than fine
tin . And thus, the second medal will melt & mold itself on the
first one without spoiling it. But to make sure this is done right, mix
some lamp black  with water , & with a
pinceau  , give a light coat of this to the medal, which
remains in the frame , & leave to dry. Thus it will not
melt.
But if you have a medal of copper  or silver , you can
leave it in the cast, if you want to cast with lead  or
tin . But it is necessary that it be a little hot, for the cold
would make the tin  contract.
Tin  wants to be cast quite hot to come out neat.
Soft tin  , which is the best for the cast, is the
one that, once cast en grille  , is burnished
&  shiny & polished like a mirror, & appears to have
been burnished. And has have holes like the one that is brittle, &
that is not shiny, as if burnished.

Potin 
Potin , once cast hot, runs & flows like tin . But
the medal becomes whitish from this, and immediately pushes the
verd   to the surface, which good substances do not
do.

Molding statues
Half founder ’s earth, which
founders  use , & half clay earth ,
g   renders very neatly.

 092v
Sand from river tellins  and
mussels  
 The long shells   that can be found in fresh
river waters , once calcined, makes an impalpable white sand, which
moulds very neatly.

Congealing mercury 
It congeals, just as I tried, by boiling it one or two
hours   in a rather large iron  posnet ,
putting in, for an ℥   of
☿  , ii ℥   of
verdet  de   and vitriol of
saltpetre , ana  , with sufficient quantity of old
water from mareschaulx   .
Or else, melt 4 ℥   of tin , & as
it cools, purify it of its filth , which is on top, then, make a
hole in it & put in there i ℥   of
☿   & it will come out like tin  if you
remelt it, but it will be breakable. And If you want to assay if it is
tin  or ☿  , redden a shovel  &
put a small lump of your ingot on top. If it is tin , it will melt
& stay, but if it is ☿  , will quickly melt,
then when crackling well, it will evaporate. One ought to congeal it in
a spoon  or in a hollow crucible , & make a
moderately sized hole.
It can also be congealed, as I assayed, in aqua
fortis   which beforehand will have eaten a little silver .
This one, mixed, makes tin  & lead  run.

Mixture
Fine tin , congealed mercury  with the smell of
tin , looking glass tin , fine lead , as much of
one as the other , makes a substance that melts very quickly, but
breakable & white. I think that it would be good for solder .
A long time to cool.

 093r
Olives 
They are spoiled if once per month   one does not
refresh their salt water , and one ought not to touch 
with their hands , for this makes them spoils.

Observation from rustics 
That when it freezes  on Palm Sunday , it
freezes all the months of the year 
That when the first flowers fall les suiv   &
are lost from the frost , the others are usually lost
also.

Grafts
It is necessary that the graft not be from old wood for it is never
a beautiful tree.
One needs to leave only two shoots at maximum on the graft, for when
it has more, its strength is weakened. The wind torments it, & it
does not have enough strength for taking cuttings.
Trees which have coarse marrow, like peach trees  & all
their kind &the plum trees , do not want grafts in
freezing weather  because the cold damages their marrow, which one
also needs to protect from wounding by cutting the foot of the
graft.
All grafts must not be made earlier than their tree will be sapping,
for the humor  grows them quickly. Otherwise
au  , they dry too quickly that the humor  of
the sap does not grow them.

Sand
The white ash of all woods , which still sticks to the
wood  that burns, and which has not fallen into the
bo  hearth  , molds very
neatly.

Sand
Ashes  well pulverized tallow  molds &
releases very neatly. The one from the kitchens , which is fat
& shiny, from the big kitchens , is better.
Finely pulverized quicklime  works. The same for broken up
flint ,which works better in the cavity.

 093v
Faces in distemper 
Because colors in distemper  dry quickly & one would not
have leisure to perfect the shadows & touches on the face, one wets
the reverse of the face which is on canvas  with a wet
sponge . Then, with a small pinceau  , one makes
the shadows, which do not come undone. Next, one lays the flesh color,
which does not prevent the already painted shadows from appearing. And
again with a more lively flesh color, one touches the more prominent
areas. And with another pinceau   one does the shadows
again  by hatching. The shadow strokes do not come undone
because they are made of bistre , which stains the canvas 
like rust . The said bistre  is good with  for
making shadows in distemper mix , for in oil  it
has no body & would not dry but with great difficulty. One mixes in
the said bistre , for shadow, ocre de ru   & a
little sap green . The best bistre  is the greasy &
shiny kind from the fireplaces of large kitchens . It is
difficult to grind & screeches on the marble  .

Azure 
Azur d’esmail   always wants to be cleaned because the
filth that can be seen in the laveures  makes it die. One needs
to coat it two times, & the first very thick, moving the
pinceau   by laying it first lengthwise then across.
  It is better used on canvas , where it is imbibed
immediately, than on wood . Varnish  returns it to its
vigor, because being imbibed, it becomes dark. To try it,
painters  bring their palette  to the
grocers , & distemper & alloy it with a little white
ground in oil , for in this way, the beautiful shows its
turquine  vivacity, but the bad is lavender grey. The most
delicate is the best for working. It is thinned working  by
washing it.

Violet and lake 
It is made of azure  & lake  which is also assayed
on the palette  with white. It is deemed beautiful that which
which, on a polished knife  or on glass   gives a
clear red  color of red rose, tending a little towards violet.
The kind which is blac  dark red is not as pleasant.

 094r
Burnisher 
The different parts of a sword are the handle, and  the sheath
of the sword. What comes next is the heel. The rest is the blade. The
sides are the edge and the point. Certain blades, acute in point, have
only one side filed in the middle & along the whole length, and are
easy to break. Other blades are called of three molds or three grips,
which have one good rise in the middle, but this elevation is flat as if
it were acute in point but flattened. These ones are most certain.
Others are called fluted, which are notched from the middle, & when
it is along the whole length, they are just as easy to break as those
acute in point and are more troublesome to burnish because the
burnishing stick can't get in. But they make one specially that is
narrow.
Making up the hilt of the sword are the pommel, the branches of the
hilt and the cross-guard, which is this iron  strip that closes
off the guard and  that is at the end of the heel to stop thrusts
from sliding down the hilt. The rings are these two branches in half
round that start from the eye of the guard and go all the way to the
branch of the cross-guard. The branch that crosses the hilt is called
the body and this escutcheon, by which the sword enters the sheath and
to which all the branches return, and which holds them, is called the
eye of the guard.
Following is the wood  of the grip which one glue s or
more fittingly uses  some mingled wax  which is made of
wax  and pitch , for rosin  would be too hard. He
heats it lightly, then rubs the wood  of the grip so that the tang
takes hold, or the threads , otherwise, when a thread  frays
off, the whole thing will break all at once. With iron  thread or
dog skin , one also uses glue . The trimming set on the
wood , which is made of silk  or thread , is called
the cord, which is made from two or three threads  twined on the
spinning wheel, or 4 if the silk  is thin. A cord a little bigger
holds better. The rivements, which are also made of silk  at both
ends of the grip, are called the buttons.
Some grips are made of silk , seal skin , iron 
thread reheated with gold  and fine and false silver 
thread & velvet thread . Iron  thread is of less
price and is most durable. Next is that of silk , if one does not
have the convenience of being close to the sea in order to recover some
dog skin , which is quite convenient. The good skin  costs
fifty or lx sous  and makes 4 or five dozen grips. This one
gives a good grip and a sure hand. To put it to work, if it is too hard,
soak it for one or two hours in slightly lukewarm aqua fortis .
Because if it were too hot, it would boil and spoil the skin . It
is sewn with black thread .
  
 094v
 The gold  handles are made with some yellow thin cloth 
set below or other kind of chalk-yellowed fabric . And this
cloth  is set on with glue  or aforesaid gum . This is
in order to make the thread  hold better on it. These latter are
made of cordons like the silk  ones and between two cordons are
put one or two threads  to enhance it. The silver  one is
identically made. And there is as much difficulty as for the silk 
one, not because silk  is difficult to twisted, but it needs to be
twisted twice. A fine gold  handle is worth 28 or 20 cents.
The best sword point is of sage foliage .
This long stick on which the sword is laid down and attached in
order to furbish is called the chameau. It is commonly made from
rowan  which is hard and even.
The stick underneath which is folded bow-like is called the
arch.
The stick above is called stick of the fustée.
And this square piece, used on the sword to burnish it, is called
the fustée.
There are two horns, one is called the oil  hornet and the
other the emery  hornet. 
There is an iron  tool with the shape of a halberd point,
square and made of very even and well limed steel  called the
grateau which helps to soften lime strokes on swords hilts and to
sharpen blades once they are softened which is better than with
stone  or other tools which leave some scratches.
To make the swords cut better, the edge from the point is also
sharpened.
Those who create sword hilts  are different craftsmen than
furbishers .
The fustée is a three-finger-thick, square wood  tool, made of
boxwood  which fit in the middle of the fustée stick to
furbish.
The fresil stick is made of willow wood  which is to … 
weapon with some clinker  which is the iron scale  falling
from the blacksmiths ' forge.
le banc 


des fourreaux     a  b


D
 


le baston 


a felinder
 


c


le flin  ou pierre


de fouldre 
 
 095r
 The furbisher  buys his blades by the dozen which are not
finished, but ready  to be pulled from their  sheaths since
he does this himself in order to add them well at the pommels and
guards.
Spanish swords are esteemed to be better for they are of better
steel  and iron  but they are not as well-forged as swords
from Vienne in Dauphiné. The Spanish ones are not as well sharpened from
the forge since they sharpen them with their feet and this is what makes
them wavy.
Blades from Vienne commonly cost xviii or 19 lb.
The first thing the furbisher  does to his new blades is
to draw them out from the sheath, which he does himself or has it done
by locksmiths  or blacksmiths  to whom he gives some
liart for their charcoal . Afterwards they pass it over a
grindstone to cut it down. Then they lay it down on the chameau, 
and with some powdered emery , fine and soft as flour, and soaked
with oil  to make it take, they polish the sword with the stick
used to take off the tracks left by the grindstone and then they clean
the blade well with the emery . And they add a drop or two of
oil  spread with the finger to give it luster. Once the oil 
is applied, they polish it again on the chameau with the "felin" which
is a thunderstone mounted on the middle of a stick like the "fustée."
And this stick is called the "felindel" stick. Once they used the
"felin," they polish it again with some chalk  and the oil already  on the sword. After they follow this and going over it
again, they polish it with dry chalk . Finally when they are
finished with mounting of the pommel and guard , they give it a
sharp edge with a file. They then dry it and sharpen it and furbish it
again with some dry chalk . At the end when they are completed and
mounted, they give it the blade  a sharp edge with a grater.
They are polished on a false mounting with the guards which are
present in order to find out if they work well together. And employing a
blade of the sort of which all the sizes should be made in the hand, one
conjectures whether it will be as strong when mounted.
One puts the blade in a vice between two pieces of wood , then
with a file, they enlarge it  if needed for attaching the guard.
Then to clench it, one positions the place to be riveted and the pommel
on a piece of wood . And with a hammer, one beats on the top to
make it very level and to secure the pommel. Then with the hammer, one
finishes the rivet when the hammer is well secured and does not shake.
The wood  is placed so as not to put gashes in the pommel.
Afterwards one makes a place for the rivet with a file or chisel. And
some make the rivet or attachment  in a diamond-shape but this is
not as good as a round topped one  because one cuts oneself on the
corner of the rivet.
 
 095v
 The end can be bought already made, a dozen of small ones costs six
sols but the big ones 2 carolii.The end is fixed either with nails which
are fixed on the sides of the cutting edge, but this only spoils the
sword and rots the scabbard for the water goes into it via the juncture
of the nail. The best way is to apply some resin  or glue 
but the resin  is better. And the best is when the end is tightly
set and so hot when set that powdered resin  on the end melts, in
that way it doesn't fall and can't be undone unless it is put in
fire.
Hilts are of different types:

Ornate

Guttered which is with round mouldings

Pearled 

Scarfed when the bands are crosswise

Onioned which is with a flat head

In the King's manner, fully covered 
The furbishers  buy them by dozens, the dozen of full ones
costs 10 lb. the worked one, 30 sols or more  depending on its
nature.
The first thing that the apprentice  does is to furbish as
said.
And then to adorn the sword and make a scabbard which is the summum
of the art.
They buy scabbards' wood  pieces which are wholly made of
beech wood , a hundred for 15 or 20 or 30 sols, depending on how
far they are made.
Theses wood  pieces are thus called estelles, and have to be
very clean and without any knots and are one finger thick.
Then the furbisher  puts them on a small bench, called a
scabbard bench and with a small iron  tool similar to the
joiners ' bench, they maintain it firmly. Then with a plane,
which is like a two-handled knife, they work the wood  piece from
the top, then use the joyner 's plane to flatten it more.
Afterwards, the inside is scoured with a
 
 096r
 

round plane , also two-handed, and then with a small narrow
plane , it is gutted and scoured for half a foot towards the end
of the heel. And a shorter scouring is better so that the sword does not
always cut the scabbard.


The opening of the scabbard is called the mouth and on top of it is the
shape of the knife.


The stitch which is a leather  rim set on the edge of the knife
shape is made to stop the sword frogs.


When the small planks are well flattened, the sword is laid down on them
and with a black stone  one marks the width and length of the
blade. Then with a chisel  the excess is cut. And a
plane  is used to even properly following the marks.


Then the two small planks are stuck edge to edge and all
around  only following the knife shape and not elsewhere. And this
is to make the scabbard velvet leather  hold.


Then the sword is put in the small planks and it is set in the scabbard
which is sewed. And they rub what is glued directly on the knife shape
with some tallow  to run into the scabbard.


The scabbard is made of calf  or sheep leather ,
the calf  ones are in all one piece, but not the sheep 
ones. When swords are long, they are made of several patches sewn
between leather  and flesh  and then they rub firmly the
stitching with a boxwood  piece to cover and even it. From a good
calf skin , 8 or 9 or 10 scabbards can be made. A
workman  can easily make 6 a day. If they are too thick, they
are lightly thinned out with a plane. If the skin  is too hard, it
is lightly dipped in some lukewarm water  but not for long. Next,
the same worker who worked wood  piece has to adjust the scabbard
in order for it to be well done. It is true that for common people,
there are some good already all made, but they never fit perfectly. When
the scabbard is made and sewed with black thread , it is rubbed
with a boxwood  piece or a slightly oiled  cloth . The good
cow leather  scabbard is the best of all and costs also
more than all except the velvet  ones. Under the velvet  one
usually put plain canvas  or a sheep skin  scabbard
or a parchment  layer. But the best scabbard is a waxed scabbard
covered with either velvet  or calf skin . One
covers the wood with thin canvas, which one then waxes, and covers in
velour  or calf skin . A waxed  scabbard is
worth at least 30 cents, a cow  leather one, 20 cents. 


From a sheep skin , v or vi.

 096v
Grey hilts
When they are white, it is necessary only to clean them well, and
then to heat them over a fire, and make them turn blue. And take good
care that they do not turn too blue, since neither gold  nor
silver  nor any color would set. To accomplish this, which is
called les faire passer , have a caldron full of ashes 
that you cover with some blazing hot charcoal , and heat the
ashes  thus very well, for an hour or two. And when the
ashes  are very hot, put the charcoal  aside and put the
hilt where the charcoal  was, and cover it completely with
ashes . And when the body, which is the main part of the hilt, is
completely colored, flip it onto the other side. In that way, the grey
cannot color it too dark, unless some hot coal  touches it.
Greying can be achieved in an ordinary fireplace, too, but there is a
danger that it may sit there too long and make a crust which which will
prevent the color from setting. Blue coloring is obtained as soon as the
ashes  have heated the hilts a little bit, but it will always be
grey on some sides. After blue comes grey.

Color of water
For  the color of water, pass a lime
doulce   on the guards to whiten them, then the
burnisher . Next, one makes them pass blue until they become
grey. Next, when they are still moderately hot, pass the
bloodstone  over them, and when they cool, one turns them to
reheat them, for the color of water is made only by several goes. And if
the guards were not warm, the bloodstone  would scrape & undo
the color. One needs to heed that guards do not pass too grey, for they
would give off filth that would prevent the color from taking. One needs
almost one day   for preparing, softening, &
setting the color of water, but as they pass a little blue, it is enough
for grey & another color. Grey is the lesser color after
varnish  which is of two colors, either yellow or black.

Yellow varnish 
One whitens very well & one cleans the guards well. Next, one
with a feather, one coats them cold with a feather  all of
walnut olive   oil , and next turn them
over a good charcoal  fire that is in the
furbishers ' furnace , without them touching the
charcoal  or the ashes . And when they do not smoke anymore,
it is done.

 097r
Black varnish 
It is said, at the beginning of the book where you can see it, that
it is made with galipot .



Gilding
One prepares the guards thoroughly with a soft, very soft
file  such that there is nothing black left on any of the guards,
and next heat them, & pass them as said. But to gild & gild with
silver , they ought not to pass, except maybe a little towards
blue. Then while the guards are hot, one attaches them to a wood block
& with some tweezers  one layers the gold  & one
makes it sit with bloodstone ,which is quite clean & rubbed
with pottée  . And when the guards are cold, one reheats
them, then one layers the gold  as above. And first one gives
de   two layers, until the entire guard is
well-adorned. And next one reheats as at the beginning, & one gives
the third covering of gold . Then one burnishes very thoroughly
and with great force with a large bloodstone . And  But
note that to  burnish well, the guard always needs to be warm.
And to know this, one smells it & brings it close to the
nose  . For one ought not to touch with the
fingers , but one grasps  picks it up from on top of
the warm ashes  with a small iron  rod , which has
been purposely made to go into the eye of the guard. And when it is
entirely well-polished, one rubs it very well with a white
linen  , and the gold  needs to be thicker & stronger
than for painters . A quarter  is worth fifty or LX
sols  .

Gilding with silver 
One needs to prepare the guards & whiten them with a
lince   file , a little coarser
for  than for gold . And one makes them pass to grey, as
for gilding. And when they are warm, one needs to double the leaf of
silver , then divide it with a knife , next cover the guard
with it, with un petit  tweezers  & a
small burnisher . And then reheat & apply them, until they
are all gilded in silver . Next one needs to cover them for the
third time, with the leaf  doubled as has been said, then burnish
them very strongly & with good strength, not with the
bloodstone , but with a strong burnisher , just as the
burnisher  ought not to burnish gold .

 097v
Mastic varnish  dry in a half
hour  


Some take 2 ℥   of mastic , half
℥   of turpentine  & half
℥   of turpentine oil  & eau de
vye , a little at your discretion, because it evaporates when heated
& nonetheless makes the varnish  more desiccative. But I made
it thus: I take turpentine oil  at discretion & put in a good
bit of turpentine , because it remains always moist & attaches
itself if one puts in too much, & eau de vye , & heat in a
varnished bowl  the said oil , & when it begins to be
very hot, I put in some subtly ground mastic  & around
one-third  of the oil  passed through a sieve l , and let reheat until it is melted, which will be soon on
hot ashes . Once all melted, try it on the knife , and if
you see that it has too much body, add in a little turpentine
oil , and if it does not have enough, add in mastic , and thus
it well be done. And keep it well covered so that no filth gets in. When
you want to make it, be careful to sort & choose the mastic 
that is white & purified of any dirt & dust & black dross.
And when you wash it & dry it to render it very white & clean,
it will be even better. For if you do not purge it well, these
straws   & marks, pulverised into it, will remain
within the varnish , & when you set it on white or carnation,
it will appear that they are fleas  & blemishes. Once well
chosen, pulverise it in a mortar  and pass it through a very
fine sieve , and next mix it in oil , as is said. But if you
want to make it more carefully, extract a tear of mastic , as you
know, pulverise, pass, & mix, and you will have something very
singular for small works. Take heed when varnishing not to breathe on
it, for this will make the varnish  whiten & take body.


It almost dries when working.


One knows that this varnish  does not have body enough when it
does not take well on a panel in oil  for it is like water .
Add in therefore pulverized mastic  & heat until it is good.
This varnish  is very white & beautiful, & does not go to
your head like that of spike lavender  .


For some, instead of tour  turpentine oil , put
spike lavender  oil , which is not as good.


This varnish  is laid down cold on the panel with a very clean
fingertip  , & one needs to spread it
vigorously.


The Italians  scarcely varnish their paintings because they lay
their paintings very thick & they are a long time  drying
on the inside, though on top they make a dry skin & crust.


One lays the varnish  with a finger   so as to lay
it thin, because when thick, it yellows.

Painting on glass


It is a strange thing that the workers in this craft can only work if
they have good breath, for if they have bad breath their work will crack
when refired.

 
.098r
Varnish  for lutes
They take a little turpentine  & oil of turpentine or
of spike lavender   & amber pulverized  &
passed very subtly & make as that of mastic , & add in to
color it a little dragon 's blood  and make it reddish,
and others some terra merita   for yellow.

Borders of a garden 
One needs to plow the soil, then make it thinner with the
rake . And next, if it is dry, one needs to moisten it. Then
stretch the chalked cord  very close, and hit on the entire
length of the chalked cord as   with the back
of a pruning knife , in order that the chalked cord 
marks a straight line, the length  of which you will un
bord   make holes with an iron  stake , where you
will plant your rosemary . Behead & cut to measure and
prune  at the foot.

Locksmith 
To well tin  nails and other work, they file  their
work very neatly. Then to clean it well & rid it of fattiness, they
make it boil in vinegar , then they wipe it well with a
linen   . Next they heat it & pass some
resin  over top, which coats it with a shiny skin like
varnish . This done, they melt some pure & fine tin  in
their estamiere  , which is a little square iron 
box. And when the tin  is well melted & moderately warm, they
throw in resin  in to burn the filth, & then they let the
head of a nail  or something similar soak a little, & having
remained there for seven or eight pauses  , they take
it out and shake it, hitting the top with an iron   to
make the tin  that is superfluous fall off, & clean it with a
small stick wrapped in tow  . And if it is not well
tinned , you will hit it hot with a piece of resin  & do
as before & let it cool. When the work cools, it becomes yellow,
which is a sign that the tin  is the right temperature. But it
becomes blue if the tin  is too hot. Things t  
thus tinned  are durable & are not undone like tinning done
in leaf , thus at the end of a year  they can be clarified
& renewed by heating & rubbing them.
Leadsmiths  say that making a lizard  die in the
melted il des  tin  makes the tinning 
become very golden. Or else putting in sal ammoniac .

 098v
Small dogs 
Small dogs  who should be shaggy are known by this, that
they have a larger muzzle than others.

Salted artichokes 
One puts them whole & not too ripe in a firkin  that one
fills with brine . Then one serves them all
year  , among salads, raw with oil  & vinegar ,
for being thus prepared, they take long to cook. But take heed to test
your brine  with an egg  for if it is good & and strong
enough, the egg  will float on top. If not, it is not strong
enough and would not preserve the fruits .

Trees
Which bear fruits quickly are aged and scarcely last.

Birds 
Which have been fed by the rod  do not whistle among the
company of others if they are not in a separate cage. For teaching them
well to whistle, one needs to take them from the nest before they can
see & cover them with down  or a hare skin . Thus,
having not seen their father and known his voice, they learn the whistle
that one teaches them better.

Fonte 
The potée   is made of burnt earth  which was
used in the fonte , this is earth bourre bolvene  
in which one has melted it. One grinds it on a big
stone  , & with this one one makes the
chappe  of  first coat of the chappe  of
bells, where there are letters & works, & le  
only needs to be reheated in the flame of a straw , and mold very
neatly.
The earth  which molds in noyau  is subject to making
it porous, if you do not rub well with a brush  or your
finger   on the molded piece, which should be well
oiled . And do it coat by coat, & not all at once.
 
 099r
 Earth , or sand, moistened or ground with water , wants
to be reheated more than sand.
Latten from a candlestick  is not pure, for one mixes in it
iron filings  & potin .
Latten  wants to be cast hotter than copper , quod
non credo .
One ought not, to cast carefully, to take metals already
alloyed , but take them pure & mix them.
Iron  hardly agrees with being cast in a mixture of
copper  or latten .
It is better all with a sand, either in a frame  or
noyau  at once, rather than several mixed.


One ought to reheat for one or two hours  et
p  , in that a charcoal  fire which
lights by itself, a crucible  with the substance inside, and
then blow & cover the crucible  with large charcoals 
& the mouth of the furnace  with bricks  , and
let it consume two or three feedings of charcoal , which
se   fill the furnace  above the
crucible . In the end feed and stoke the fire, & when the
flame is very white & that the substance will be in a liquid
bain  like water  & casting off pale blue flames,
cast. The secret is to cast very  hot & in one go.

Lean white sand 
Without bond renders well proper for casting, & having body, if
you grind it very finely on porphyry   or calcine it,
reddening it several times in the fire, & being in vinegar ,
or finely ground with water  as you know, it also molds very
neatly in noyau , as I have experimented. But do not moisten it
with salt water  if you want to quickly reheat it, for salt 
boils on the fire & makes bubbles, being pressed by the fire. I
believe that the noyau , gently reheated, would not do this. I
molded very neatly in noyau  the substance of skillets .
White sand smells like sulphur   when reheated, and
I believe it would melt. And since the substance has been cast in it, it
acquires in the mold comm e   a
luster as if it were leaded  or vitrified. I believe that
glassmakers  could use it.


One needs very little of sal ammoniac  dissolved in
water .

Bell handles


They can be put back on, without remaking the bell, which one ought to
put back in the pit, & and mold it there. But should you
solder  a ref   cracked bell, it is considered
impossible to give it its first voice.

 099v
Quince trees 
They want to be pruned often, otherwise they die & do not bear
fruit so beautiful.

Cannons
They are very difficult to drill when they are made of metal 
since the material is rough and brittle. But you must not push the drill
too strongly or push all at once, but remove it often. In that case, the
cannon mouth is bigger than the bullet in order to avoid drilling, since
the material can be easily cast and slides. The drill should not be like
a dovetail, or a point, but should be cut in round like a crankshaft. If
it breaks, don't leave it to rust + 
+  but instantly take it off from the light. What you
will do is pour a little oil  on it and then turn it down opposite
to the light, strike the opposite side, and it will fall out. You have
to drill gently when a piece is made of metal.

Bells
One does not make them in the pit if they do not fit.

Gilding your  molding for panels without
gold 
Some take orpiment in leaf form  & pulverize it & make
moresque  leaves & burnish it, and it is this
orpiment  which is shiny like gold . However, ground
metals  or ground cristallin   or touchstone  are
better.

Orpiment  orange
One sublimates it & one grinds it & some put in a little
arsenic  to make it melt instead.

Varnish 
Some make this of mastic  with two ounces  of
mastic  and one of clear & white turpentine oil  &
eau de vye  as above. Heat it on ashes  until it is melted,
then let it rest & put it in another vessel  to purge it of
dregs.

 100r
Gold color
To quickly make a layer of or sur  
mat   on canvas  or other oil panel , one makes fatty
walnut  oil in the sun  or on the
fire , as said above, for it thickens by itself in this way,
although there is neither lead , nor ceruse . And with this,
grind massicot  , mine , & other desiccatives,
not verdet   nor orpiment , for they cause the
gold  to die. It will be dry soon. However, if the
weather is not clear & dry  , do not shade it,
for if the weather is damp & humid  , it would
turn black.

Portrait-painting from nature
One needs to carefully observe  the eyes, the nose, &
the beard, for these three things make strong resemblance.

Gemstones 
One needs to pound your materials in a thick glass mortar  coated with mastic , & encased & into
another wooden mortar , so that it does not break, this
can be useful to perfumers , & la t  use a
glass pestle  too.

Glass mortar  and table  for
crushing.

Vitrified saltpeter 


Melted with pebbles , it makes the glass  very white. But
rather, it needs to be calcined on a hot tile or paddle . And
mix the liquid remains of the vapor with as much white, calcined
pebbles . It is true that, in the little oven , it does
not make it very clear. But for big windows, it makes the glass 
very clear, & white & clean.

Windows through which the sun  will not pass
Take the aforementioned calcined saltpeter  & expose it to
a humid air or place , and it will convert itself into a
liquid which, if rubbed on both sides  of the windows, the
sun  will not pass through; rather, it will give shade. One
needs to put the saltpeter  on some clean thing place , & it  put glowing coals  on it,
and continue all over until it no longer burns.


It also serves for melting & for adding in with alkali salt 
for cleaning hands .

 100v
Gemstones 
Take white pebbles  that are found along rivers & along
gravel banks, & paths and that are somewhat transparent. If they are
perfectly transparent, & it will be better. If not, use the best
& whitest ones that you can find. Calcine them three or 4 times in
your four à vent   & quench them in water  or
vinegar . Then, take a ℥   of them and
pound them in a completely pure copper  mortar , &
with a pestle of pure copper  , and grind them until they
become very fine & soft powder; this is a sign that they have taken
enough of the substance ofcopper  to give them greenness. Then in
your ℥   of pebbles , add in three
℥   of good minium , unadulterated by
brick  & something else, and strongly pound everything
together again in a bronze  mortar . And in all of this,
add in a gros  pour ℥     of sel de
verre  , & some & the common people put in
sandever  that they find it among the glassmakers  or
apothecaries . But alkali salt , as you know, is better.

Emerald  

In this way, the vulgaire  makes emeralds  & casts
them in sand. If you do not have a bronze  mortar , crush
avecq un mort  in a cauldron of pure
copper  .


The crucibles need to be reheated before putting materials in,
and need to be put in the forge  or four à
vent   instead of making & increasing the fire.

 


They are done in an hour & a half .




A gros   of salt  in four
℥   of pebbles  &minium . When
one says: for ℥  , what is to be understood is:
an ℥   of body & not of salts  &
minium .



For ruby  take gold in leaves
Raise your stove  by two tiles  all around because
more heat is needed to make rubies  than emeralds . And take
an ℥   of white, calcined pebbles , and
put it in a glass  mortar  &, having roughly pounded
it with the same kind of pestle , mix un
grain   in the weight of a grain  of gold 
leaves of the kind used by painters  for gilding, &
crush.


Some say that mixing the gold  with pebbles  and
saltpeter  gives the color of a peach tree 
.



Others say that the gold  has to be cemented several times and
then beat into leaves.
 
 101r
 again quite hard, and then add to it three
℥   of minium , & pound again together
& put it in the crucible , which you will cover with an
appropriate tile , not too thick, so that heat reverberates
better. Then put it on the grill  of your furnace ,
having put a few thick, rounded tiles  under it. Next, fill your
charcoal  furnace  to the mouth  with
charcoal , heaped to the top, and let it light, and always
maintain the heat even, without letting the charcoal  go down. And
to this effect, always ensure that the furnace  is heaped to the
top & full of charcoal  and maintain it like this for one
day . The first experiment I made, only a yellow mass emerged,
like minium  alone when vitrified, & with gold  grains,
in a mass at the bottom. Try cemented gold  together with
antimony .
 

If you need more heat, put tiles  on the edge of the
mouth  of the glowing furnace , lean them one against
the other to make the heat reverberate.
 
Topaz 
The same dose can be observed for all gemstones , which is one
part  the weight of calcined pebbles  with three
parts the weight of minium , pounding all separately in a
copper  mortar  for emeralds , & in an
iron  mortar  to make topazes  or amber 
color, with pestles  similar to the mortars .
Emerald  & topaz  are of the same heat, & for an
hour  & a half, otherwise they could burn. Ruby  wants
more time & more fire, & colored with gold  leaf. I
believe that pumice stone  or fire-stone  for the
ruby  would be better. See enamels . Also try to mix pieces
of colored glass  or enamels  instead of pebbles . If
the mass is not colored enough, pound it further in the iron 
mortar .


Slightly burnt tartar  mixed in makes beautiful yellow, but not
much is needed. Arene   also makes it more yellow.

Salt  for melting
Mix saltpeter  & common salt  and melt them together
& cast on melted copper  or ch   in a
bain , & it purifies & makes it run marvellously. First,
one ought to decrepitate the common salt , that is to say holding
it over a good fire until it no longer crackles or, to melt it better,
in an four à vent  . And throw it neatly on
marble  , then crush it & grind it very finely, then
put it in a crucible  on as much saltpeter  &
let it boil, & mix them together until


It cleans & purifies metal  well.
 
 101v
 the crucible  is red. Next, throw it on
marble  , and you will have a substance white, hard &
even, like alabaster , with which you will be able to cast medals
which will resemble marble , but keep them out of the
humidity.

Jacinth 
Is made like ruby , with gold ; but one does not need
such a great fire. The ruby  wants fire for a whole
day  , and if it does not have enough fire, it will
only have red veins.


Always heat up your crucibles .




One holds that rubified antimony  makes jacinth .



Topaz 
I melted one part of calcinated & pulverized pumice stone & tr   with three parts of minium , the
stone having been pulverized in a steel mortar. A very beautiful yellow
came to me, without any grain more yellow than the others. It is true
that it was strongly charged with colour. I believe it would be better
to pulverize the pumice  in a glass mortar, because it & the
minium  make enough yellow by themselves. A mass came to me, the
top of which was the beautiful yellow, as mentioned, and the bottom was
like a fire-stone  without transparency. With which, in mixing
other

Varnish 
The Germans  make minium  boil a lot in
linseed  oil , & to give it the body of
varnish , they mix in very pulverized yellow amber .

Gum ammoniac 
One puts it by small pieces into a little good vinegar , &
one heats, then one passes it through a cloth strainer . All
medicinal gums  dissolve in vinegar .

 102r
Provisions for the work of Colchos
7 retorts 

2 lb.  of ☿   ☿  

One measure of coarse salt 

6 terrines  without lead  

2 large unleaded  pots  for calcining

2 alembics  for distilling vinegar 

4 pots   of good vinegar 

3 or 4 lamps 

2 lb.  of cotton 

One pair of small scissors 

For the furnace 
A coffer  with a stone  ten square
thumbs    in size, and one
foot    thick, pierced in the middle

2 earthenware boxes  or  pots with a lid 

2 small pipes of fer blanc    to evacuate the
smoke from the furnace Rapeseed  oil  for the lamps  to heat the
furnace 

A fire-steel 

Royal cement 
One lb. & a half  of vitriol 

As much saltpeter 

As much rock alum 

Glass  vessels 
The glass  vessel  must be made like a pear or round
pyramid, of the thickness as a small knife  back , round
on the bottom without bending like vials , its opening of such a
size that a Dutch  quill   can just about fit
in, & with a lip at the end. Thus of height of seven
fingers ' width .

 

 102v
Painting on crystal  or glass 
They paint in oil  without lines, except for the faces where
they trace the nose & the mouth with black in small work, then they
make strokes & and highlights in white, next they coat all with
carnation. And as for the ground, they make it with azur
d’Acre   for more beauty, or with lake for a quickly-done
red , or with dragon 's blood  for the most beauty. But
one needs to layer it little by little so that it appears even & of
one color, & thus for other colors. Next they put underneath it a
leaf of topaz , or one of gold  or
silver  .

Infusion of anthos   or
rosemary  
In the month  of August , the flower is better
cooked & more suitable for making oil . Take of it whatever
quantity you like and put it into a bottle subsequently  well stoppered, & leave to wilt in there
in the shade  for a day  . Then put in it
the first substance of wine  & leave it to rest three or four
days  ; and express the whole into another
vessel  & into this very same substance of
wine  , put in seven or eight infusions  of new
flowers. Next, leave the last infusion in the sun for a month  . Next distil it through an
alembic . Ne , And take ii ounces  of this
water  in two or three spoonfuls   of white
wine ; but this is for the elderly . Paul the
Third  used it.

Cast
Tin  comes out better being thin & fine, rather than
thick, because being thick & in great heat, it retracts. Therefore,
if you want to mold a thick piece in tin , mold it only on one
side, & with a cavity on one side, if it is possible, in that way
you will have it more neat, and then you will be able to solder 
two halves together. But if you have to mold it thick, make it in the
form & mold a lot of abrevouers  around the figure, in this
way.

 

 103r
Against burns, excellent
Heat linseed  oil  on a gentle fire, without letting
it boil & simmer, but once it is hot put in a quarter  as
much of the newest wax  you can. Once melted, let it cool, &
once they begin to curdle, stir continuously with a new
wooden  spatula t   for as long as it takes
you to say one  9 pater nosters , and as you say them,
wash this composition with holy water , stirring all the while.
Having said the first 9 pater nosters , pour out the
first water  & put in new one, & wash & stir the
composition for the time it takes you to say 8 pater
nosters  , and the 3rd time for as long as 7, & and thus
you will consecutively until  add new water , doing the
same as above, until the last & single pater noster  of
nine. Then you shall have a soft & white ointment , with which
you shall smear the burn for the space of 9 days  .
But do not apply it any longer than this, for it would cause
a   your flesh  to grow excessively. You
b  shall bandage yourself twice a day  ,
& each time you shall wash your face  with water 
& wine  mixed together, a little tepid, not rubbing, but as if
pressing with wet linen cloth , and you shall wipe it similarly
aff   with a fine linen cloth . & next put
the ointment , over which you can put ivy  leaves .
This causes hair  to regrow & leaves no scar. A
gunpowder maker  who had almost completely burnt himself
m’a   & showed no sign of the burn, taught me
this.

Against dogs ’ mange.
The English , who caress their dogs  a lot for
taking care of their livestock, have grooms  for them, who
not  particularly hold this office. And melting pitch 
in water  & leaving it to soak, they rub the dogs 
with that water , or else with water of sublimate .

 103v
Enema


In order that the tube does not harm, for example children, or those who
se   have protruding or swollen hemorrhoidal
veins , one covers the end of the tube  with a piece of
chicken  gut  & one folds it back over the end, &
in this way, one gives the enema.

Cast
Tin  retracts once thick, thusly it is best to cast it thin &
to make two pieces out of one, then solder them  if
needs be. One uses a strong piece of taffeta  to sieve the fine
sand, with which one first covers the medal, the thickness of a
teston  .

For making colors run


Mix vinegar with  a little with bile , & put
it p   into a glass  bottle , & if
you want to keep it for a long time, add some salt  to it & of
this mix some of it among your colors & that will make them
run.

Earwax 


If you take enough with the tip of an ear  picker  &
you pass it through the foam of urine , which is readily made by
those who have a headache, all the foam  will dissipate.

Enamels 


For recognizing well their difference and their true color by
candle , you need to put your candle  behind a
crystal  mirror , or a glass  globe or jar 
full of water , because this light is like
sunlight .

 104r
Corroding and dissolving absolutely pure gold 
Put it regular salt  with aqua fortis  into a violl. Let
it rest for two hours, without heating it. Put in this mixture tenuous gold , and draw it out as if it had been separated from
silver .

For Engraving on iron 
One ℥  of verdet  and ii ℥  of
coarse salt  & a little sublimate . Or else grind
massicot   with linseed  oil , and
u   cover the blade or quite clean & polished
iron  with it & leave to dry in the fire  or in
the sun . And draw on it what you please. Then, to engrave &
make the water , take a liard ’s worth  of
verdet  & put in twice as much coarse salt 
& about four grains  of sal ammoniac , & six
grains  of sublimate , & the water  must not be
hot.

Good mixture to color gold
Sulphur  & small gravel as much of one as of
the other , & the third part  of
soufr  salt , & as much terra
merita   as sulphur .

How to silver  plate copper  and latten 
Mold the silver  as the gold , & put it in the oven
in order to get a good gilt  pot. And do not let it heat,
otherwise the silver  would tarnish. Once it will be well spread,
make it boil in walnut oil , & then heat it a bit, & put
it into the water  the silversmiths  use to bleach
their works .

Enameling  a cornaline 
Soak some wheat  flower  in white wine , then
besmear & cover the whole cornaline  with it. And bring the
violet kind to heat again, then put it to temper in white wine 
for one or two hours  , then scratch it & leave
the part you want to keep on it, then lay on some more on top
again.

 104v
Against dogs'  mange
Half an ℥   of stavesacre  for
common dogs , & one ℥   for big
ones, as fine powder beaten with two egg oil  
whites  & one quarteron  of oil . Make them drink
on an empty stomach, having kept them locked up at night 
without eating . Approved.

For casting
If you have some piece which does not want to release, & is big,
mold it with wax , either in cavity or in relief, because it is
malleable once soft & obeys, and thus separates itself from the
piece without leaving anything. But take heed that the melted wax 
be neither too hot nor too cold. Some mold with wax  heated in
hot water , but in pressing the mold , it becomes gauche
& becomes fake. Once your cavity in wax , you can cast in some
very soft clay  & very moistened & clear, & let it dry
at ease. Then you will make a cavity on it ave   of
lead  or tin , in tu   which what you will
form will be of good release.

Goldsmith 
Know what it is to work on spangled garments, it is small pieces of
pure silver  & of silver-gilt  with which one makes the
archers'  coats.

Spinet playing by itself
 Make an axle surrounded with wheels pierced all around in their
thickness and attach feathers as for a cittern or a spinet & arrange
them according to the song you want it to play, leaving a suitable
distance. And, turning the axle either by yourself or by a clock spring,
your invention will effect itself.

 105r
Turtles 
Males have the shell overturned at the end near the tail, and have
the underbelly shell notched all its length from the tail to the
que   head. And the females have neither the
overturned shell near the tail nor the notches.

Drying colors
Soot black  & others would not dry in oil  if one
did not put verdigris  with it.

Painter 
Colors laid down twice are more gritty in and of themselves, if they
are not managed. Otherwise, one paints on wood ; otherwise on
canvas ; otherwise on walls.

Gardening
For grafting en escusson , one needs to take the new output
that the tree that you want to graft made in that year , &
there cut a branch on which you see that, next to
raci   the sprouting of leaves there are little
buttons that one calls oeillets , which are the beginnings of
sprouts. One needs to nimbly, with a very sharp pen-knife , cut
in the shape of a shield a little bit of the skin with  which
contains an oeillet  or sprout with the leaf, thus marked B.
But plustot   Then carefully make on the
tender wood s   which is full of sap, on which you want
to graft, two lines thus de   cut  , then make
in the middle a cleft thus

 

. Next separate with the point of the pen-knife  the bark &
open it from the cleft in the middle, and having neatly lodged your
shield so that nothing comes out but the sprout, bind it well & wrap
it entirely with a slip of linen    or very
soft thread  , so that there is nothing uncovered but the leaf,
which in three or 4 days   will give you an indication
whether the shield should take, accordingly it will be green. Leave your
graft seven or eight days   thus, then unbind it &
join it well to the bark, especially at the sprout, & then rebind
all gently but not as strongly as before; & if there is any output
or growth, leave it space to go out; & do thus three or 4
times.
  
 105v
 Next, when it will be well taken, cut the top of the tree that
exceeds your tree, three or 4 fingers above the shield for the first
time, and then, at the closest point, in order that is closed. But heed
well that when you will make your shield no small hole remains at the
back of the sprout, for this would signify to you that its root would be
broken, & your graft would never take; but make it so that the back
is intact. This type of grafting is practiced from mid-May, so that the
trees have already budded & made new output, until the beginning of
August, and so that the trees are in sap. Almond trees, which are
naturally drier, lose their sap earlier, therefore those who want to
graft onto them mericotons, apricots & grafts of trees with pitted
fruit, which are the best there, they are grafted in the month of
January. Generally trees with pitted fruit, like mericoton 
peaches, are grafted in clefts. One says that trees grafted en
piolet  or escusson  are later to bear fruit than those
en fente .

Gardening
It would not be very scrupulous to cultivate in one's garden
armols , because, when soup & broth is kept a little bit
cold, it creates worms  in it.

fountain
Recooked plaster  runs when mixed with water , which you
will see in the next recipe about wet molds. When put on the joints of
the fountain conduits, it  resists as much as any
stucco .

Taking nightingales See the 15th folio after this. 
For trapping them, one needs to observe their nature, the food that
they like the best, & the season of their pleasure. The
nightingale , as long as he sings, maintains a territory for
himself alone. Approach thus, making as if searching the ground for
something. And having some worms  which come from old meal or
from beneath, made by kneading or by mills, from where the
nightingale  is quite pleased, put some on your hat attached
with a pin or otherwise, in order that it wiggles. And at five or six
steps from the hedge where it sings, make a hole in the soil & put
in some worms , and your device of little criss-crossed sticks.
As soon as you leave it will be anxious to go see what you have done,
and seeing some worms  it will enter.
Some sell nightingales  on
trees.
The coolness of the evening and the
morning, near fountains & shaded places, are more appropriate for
taking them.

Nightingale 
It is necessary that the iron wire of its cage be of the thickest
possible, in order that thinking of leaving, it will not be hurt. Cover,
from the moment that it is taken, its cage with canvas. One needs to
force feed it the first day, taking it out from its cage into the hand
& opening its beak, & with a small wooden pin, put it in its
throat & make it swallow. And continue thus until it is no longer
opinionated. This is done for sustaining it, for if it would become thin
it would die.

Nightingale 
It is necessary for him to have a cage made in the barn, like those
for calendras , doubled with green cloth, because he fears the
cold. And for making him accustomed to eating when first he is put in
the cage, one needs to give him ants  with soil from the bottom
of the cage to make it accustomed to pecking, and give him chopped
sheep 's heart, & immediately some eggs, &
mealworms .

 106r
For casting
Asphaltum is , which is found in Germany  ,
is the most excellent sand one can find for molding in a frame ,
because it is appropriate for silver  & for gold , &
the more you use it and the older it is, the better it is. One molds in
it very thinly & finely.

Making gold  run  for casting
Because gold  cools down very quickly, one ought to give it a
mix when melted q   it is well melted which maintains
the heat. Sublimate  softens it nicely. But, because it goes up in
smoke, it does not continue to help. Therefore mix this composition when
you want to cast: sal ammoniac , the best verdet  
that you can find, a little borax  & saltpeter qui li   . And this, by keeping it warm, it
will come out neatly. Saltpeter  clarifies it &
p   heats it. But the most important thing in this
mixture is the verdet  , which has to be good. This
mixture softens the gold qui   so much that it
becomes treatable like lead , even fine gold . 
For sand for molding flowers & leaves & delicate things, mix
in well-ground raw plaster , brick  & alum de
plume  .
To moisten sands, eau de vye   is excellent, for it
grinds the sand finely & evaporates que   when one
reheats the frames .
Sal ammoniac water  is very good, is excellent for moistening
sands, but for lots of water  one only needs a little sal
ammoniac .
A lump of iron , for lack of crocum ferri  , is
exce   good for gold .
The snakes  or lizards  you want to mold should not
be kept for a long time , for if they are alive, they get
thin, and if they are dry il   dead, they wither.
Plaster of Paris   is as firm as stone  &
very good. When you will want to choose some for your sand, take it raw,
the hardest possible & which does not make any powder. The
transparent one and the one that thusly makes powder retracts,
Ce   which is not good for this work. A sign of the
one that is close to perfection is that it is hard & made of
lustrous grains nearing the shape of sugar . Finally, to mix some
into the sand to cast gold , it is necessary that it endures the
fire twice, & is reheated twice.
+  When gold  is very fine, it is so dry that it
can hardly endure a hammer , but this mixture softens it like
lead .

 106v
Casting in gold 
To cast in gold , il f  crocum
ferri   is necessary, & more alum de
plume   than in the following mixture. The alum de
plume   mixture cannot corrupt anything. The mold  needs
to be red & press it promptly with iron 
presses . 
The shell of crabs  & crayfish   are
uneasy to burn & there is a proper way of molding them.
Rats  & birds  can be molded, and the feet are
uneasy to extract, when burnt, because they are small & delicate.
The bodies are extracted more easily from the mold . The feet
are cast in many times  pieces.
Tiles  

Those of the houses  that are not sandy seem to withstand fire
better.
Tiles  with which one covers houses , the hardest
& firmest and recleansed of stones  & large gravel ,
are used to p   mix in with the sand
et   for molding. But, before, it is necessary to heat
them just until they have been well red for one or two
hours  , & pestle them & pass them finely
through a sieve .
The little turtles , having just come out of the egg, are
very nice to mold.
If the plaster  is mixed with some dust  or is not the
hard kind, it bursts in the fire & causes flaws. 
The hardest plaster  , as was said, is the best
being from stone , therefore take it raw of this kind. Crush it
bien  plus   as finely as possible
and pass it through the finest sieve  or sleeve  that
you can. Being thusly p  b  fine, put it,
in a good amount  , in a cauldron  or
skillet  over an open flame, & as it begins to heat up, stir
it continuously, and heavy & lumpy as it is, it will become so light
& so handleable that it will seem to you not to have any resistance
to handling stirring , as if it was water .
Keep stirring it continuously until it returns once again to being heavy
& dense, and that is the sign it is cooked. But do not reheat
it until your brick  and alum de plume   are
reheated & your clay  circles are done. For it needs to be the
last one reheated & when all the rest is ready, for the less
plaster #  
#  remains reheated, & plus   the
quickest it is put to work, that is the best, for it sets more quickly.
One ought not reheat it until you want to mold. And to reheat it, put
it, as finely ground raw powder, in a cauldron  on
ash  a clear flame & do not make it neither too strong nor
too violent. Always stir with a long stick , to avoid the vapor,
turning it around the cauldron  & in the middle, in a figure
8. At the beginning, you will find it heavy difficult  to
stir, because it is full of moisture. As it heats up, it will start to
throw off some bubbles at the edge of the cauldron . And finally
it will become like liquid & mealy & like bran & boiling in
the middle. Continue to stir continuously until you recognize that it
has once again become heavy



ʘʘ 
Alum de plume    is the one that gives good
binding to sand.
Crocum ferri    is appropriate for
gold . It is it, once mixed within the sand, that receives it
& holds it within its warmth.
Plaster  

When you have it as a stone , choose the hardest bits and those
which do not easily crumble away with your nail  , and
clean it well from powder & filth before you pestle it.
Plaster  alone does not withstand fire, but breaks up into pieces.




Reheated plaster se ga  , as is said here, keeps
well one or two months   well pressed in a dry
place , if it's not rainy weather  . But when
fresh, it is excellent for exquisite work.



It must withstand the fire & turn red like a lit
charcoal .
 
 107r
  

as heavy as before, and like a moderately thick paste & that it is
not so easy to handle, as when it is liquid. It is a sign that it is
cooked enough, which you will know when it also throws big bubbles or
exhalations in the middle & around, as long as a
finger  . Seeing it in this state, remove it from the
fire for it is heated enough, because if you were to reheat more, it
would be too much & would not set as well. For, when it becomes red
& overheats, it loses its strength & spoils the sand. Leave it
to cool before mixing it within the other sands. And when it is cold,
mix and mold, for as soon as you will use it after its cooking, the
sooner it will set.

Catching lizards  and snakes 
Take a stick  and attach a string  at the end, which
has a knot eyelet   slip
eyelet  at the end. And, being two to three, to distract the
lizard  while whistling, approach the eyelet towards his neck,
and when his head is inside, pull. The lizard  is more
tedious to catch by hand   than the snake  &
bites without letting go & grips like pincers . 
Snakes  can be caught by hand  , provided
that it is covered by a thick woollen  cloth , for the
teeth of the snake  stay in the cloth , & cannot
pierce like they would with a linen . The dangerous ones are
recognisable by their blue eyes & asses   deep
azur azures  . They hardly ever bite in
water , which crayfish  catchers 
experience.
The sand mixture is of two parts  of plaster pulverized
& reheated  as said, & of one part  of tile ,
reddened et p pre  in a good fire , after
the first cooking & then finely pulverized, and of alum de
plume  , half  of brick , namely two full
crucibles   of plaster , one of brick  &
a half of alum de plume  . There can never be too much
alum de plume  ,s   for this is what
gives bond to the sand, and because it does not burn, it makes sand
withstand the fire without cracking & bursting. Otherwise, without
it, the sand would not withstand it. This sand, thus composed, is proper
for all metals , but if you want to use it for gold , one
needs more alum de plume  &  than the above
mentioned composition, and mix in some crocum ferri  , and
for it is this one that attracts gold .
It is necessary that all sand with which you want to cast well,
withstands the fire well, that is to say that it withstands
abon  c   a great firing without
getting spoiled.
Alum de plume   is awkward to pestle, and it does not
pass through the sieve . Thusly one needs to grind it finely on
marble  . And the one, white, que v  
in powder, that apothecaries  sell , is good. It is
grinds better su   in the mortar  by pestling
&dragging the pinon  , thus you will render it very
fine. 
Crocum ferri   must be set ablaze in a
glassworker ’s furnace  for four
days  .

 107v
 Molds  can only be used once for fine things, like
wormwood  & others, one needs to break them, but before one
needs to dip them well into water  in which the twice reheated
things dissolve easily. Otherwise, you would not be able
f   to release your work without danger of spoiling
it.
Good alum de plume    is white and as lustrous
as white c   silk . It is in pieces long as a
finger  , & is very breakable & wooly as
down . The one made of stone  is harder & not so good.
Il   The best of the above mentioned quality is
brought in France  near Rouan . The alum de
plume   for our sand is pestled in a mortar , and is
ground further on the marble  , especially since one
cannot think of passing it finely through the sieve , for it is
so fat & wooly, that it would not pass through it. It is this, with
its small soft qui   & thin filaments, which gives
binding to the sand, in a much more excellent way than
tondure   in the founder’s earth of the founders
of great works  , because this tondure   &
cloth waste  burns and alum de plume   resists the
fire.
To enclose the molds , when you em   throw
onto the things to mold your liquid sand, make your  a circle
& surround with well beaten fat earth .
Archanum omnibus fere reconditum est in re fusoria,


videlicet  res exprimenda formis, sive herba  sit sive
animal 


ut lucerta , in af inting 
inmergatur primum in vini spiritum 


aprime rectificatum, deinde pulvere composito aspergatur


sive illinatur (si pulvis in formam pultis redactus sit, ut


assolet) . 
When you want to mold hollow, it is necessary that the
noyau  be of the same substance. And if the snake  or
the animal is curved or folded, one ought to make the noyau  of
several pieces.
Try to see  if distilled vinegar   is
appropriate for eating away & dissolving what will be in the animal
molded hollow.

If you know that your plaster  is not strong enough to withstand
the fire without breaking, do not be so scrupulous an observer of the
mixture put here that sometimes you mecties   would
not diminish the quantity of alum de plume  l  d  a little bit, for it softens the
molds  with its sweetness. Once reheated do not pulverise it, on
this occasion, as fine as said, but leave it as the
apothecaries  have ground it, for it does not hinder the
neatness of the cast & gives more binding. When the sand 
mold, estant   having set, retains the color
brick , and is reddish, it is firmer.

 108r
To hold the noyaux , some use wire of the same
metal  that they cast , because it reduces with  &
melts with its counterpart, but because when melting or folding, the
noyau  changes, some find it better to r   use
iron wire  , sharpened at the ends, because it holds
firmer & having delicate ends, it appears as no more than a point of
a needle. And one can apply gold  or silver , before using
it for a work. If it makes a hole, one covers it with a small
chisel .
Eau de vye   prevents the sand from becoming porous
& does not make little holes on the edges of the mold  if
the thing to mold is well dampened with it. The holes & pustules
& bubbles are not made at the place of the mold  which is
thick, but at the edges which are thinner.
One casts with common silver  with which goldsmiths 
commonly work, which forms a mediocre Et que   alloy.
And when one would cast with solder , it would run even
better.
Spalt    is a whitish stone  which can
be found in Germany , & mainly in Augsburg , which
one uses for the most excellent sand that can be found for lead ,
tin , copper , silver  & gold . And the more
it is used, the better it is. It is appropriate for casting flat things
in a chassis . For round things, it is not as fitting nor does
it hold in the fire as well as the above mentioned made with
plaster .
The shreds of cui   thick, greasy leather 
are p  b  good to cast in the melted
copper and latten , for it cleans it & removes from it all its
filth . 

Spalt 
Spalt  is white like cooked plaster  and can be found in
mounds and stones  formed in long scales & long veins. It is
very soft, such that with a fingernail   one can scrape
it & makes a powder like our chalk from Champagne  .
And because everything which comes from the earth  is mixed
with some other substance, to purify it, one grinds it, coming from the
quarry , quite coarsely, then one mixes it essence of sal
ammoniac . And, by putting in a piece the size of a
walnut   in a large bottle  of water  and
 
 108v
 thus one mixes it & reducing it into
p  b  small stones , purging it of its
impurities. Then one puts it to cook neatly in a
pot   earthen vessel   in
the furnace of those who make pots   , and one
leaves it there until the pots  are cooked. Next, one mixes it
again with essence of sal ammoniac  & one grinds it very well,
and one empties the muddy & clean water  in a separate
vessel . Again, one puts the same essence  on top &
one grinds & again one puts the muddy water  with the other.
And one does thusly, until it has passed everything. In this way, one
purges & purifies it, & one renders it very fine &
handleable. Having taken away the water , by tilting it or with a
sponge , one takes the residue and one dries it. Then,
moistening it with the above mentionned water , like one does with
the other eau    sand, one uses it in
chassis  , where, if it retracts, it is a sign that it
has not reheated enough & that one needs to reheat it further. This
one is appropriate for molding all metals , and especially
gold  & silver , and the more it is used the better it
is. One needs to set aside the one in which you cast lead  or
tin , for it would sour the gold  you would cast.
Alum de plume    should be reheated in a
chaulderon   crucible  covered
with a tile    in a strong flamme  charcoal  fire, so that the impurities, which could be there,
burns with it which does not burn. This is done either in the
goldsmith ’s forge , surrounded with
bricks  , or in a fourneau à vent   with
foeu de fusion , so that the sable demeure asses
long temps   crucible  remains red for a
quarter hour   . This is done more to purify it
than for anything else. It becomes reddish on the surface & on the
inside it remains white & better dried out # 
#  After your alum de plume   is cooled,
pestle it in a mortar , then grind it on the
marble  , and it will be rendered in very fine wooly
filaments, which gives binding to the sand, without getting burned as
other things do, which is a fine invention. Pestle it in the
mortar , by dragging the pestle , for the flying dust
could enter your throat  or land on your face , which
will give you reason to scratch yourself well . Put a little
every time in the mortar , to avoid the flying dust. It is
better to grind it thusly, in the mortar , dragging the
pestle , than on the marble  ,
car   where c   it spreads & in
the mortar , it collects on all sides. Render it very fine &
soft to the touch .
Clay  ,to make circles around molds , should
be very fat & handleable, and serves only to make the surrounding of
the molds . Thus, one needs only choose it well fat, and beat
very well & moisten it moderately with some water  & keep
it in a pit  or in a terrine   and make numerous
holes with a stick  in it, which fill with water , in
order to keep always fresh & soft, so that it is always ready to use
when needed.
 
 109r
Modelling with wax 
When wax  is too hard, one mixes in turpentine  or a
little butter , which sont pl   renders the
wax  more amiable, and more appropriate than the tallow 
that the Italians  put in, because one has to, often, put the
tools  in the mouth , which are better in box
wood   or bone of hart  .

Wax  for molding - 
As the wax  is melted, they have sulphur  that is
melted, in a spoon  or crucible , & they pour some
in the melted wax . And the sulphur  going to the bottom or
remaining on top, it leaves & mixes only its substance amongst the
wax , & renders it more meltable when warming it, such that
having molded, it melts in the mold gently, like butter, without leaving
any gently melts in the mold  like butter , without
leaving any pustule or bubble in it. Also be warned to not give it too
much fire.
If

Molding wax 
So that your mold  grips, without repelling in any place, on
a shape or image of wax , one needs to smear it with oil 
and moisten you sand with lukewarm water , for the cold
water  would furthermore repel the oil  & would not make a
good layer on it.


Smear well, very lightly, with oil , so little that it hardly
appears. Then rub with some eau de vye  . Next, moisten
your sand with lukewarm water  so that it does not repel the
oil .

Bellows  of the forge 
It is best that they be fixed in on some piece of
membreure , through the portevent ,
q   for they are more secure, next you can lightly
secure them from above. It is necessary that the tuelle  be 4
fingers   on the sole of the forge .

Snakes  for molding
When you take them for molding, if it is possible, do not remove
their teeth if you want to keep them. For, having had their teeth
removed, they get sore gums & mouth, & can no longer eat. You
can keep them in a barrel  full of bran  or even better of
earth , in a cool place , or in a glass 
bottle . And give them some live frog  or other live animal
for they eat nothing dead. Also I have noticed that
 
 109v
 when they want to bite or eat something, they do not bite with a
direct attack, but with sinuous turns & from the side, as do
Satan  & his disciples . It has a small head, but
a very long body. The entryway to sin seems small & inconsequential,
but the consequences of it are very great. It abstains from eating seven
or eight days  , once it has devoured some
frog . It can swallow three or four of them, one after the
other, and what he devoured is neither corrupted nor consumed in one go
in its stomach, but p   any part little by little,
that is to say bones and everything. And the remains are found as fresh
as when it had devoured them, such that sometimes, when one presses
& torments it, it renders what it has engulfed, parts of which are
found totally consumed & others as fresh as if it were alive. It can
keep for two to three hours   a frog  engulfed
& renders it completely alive.

Toad 
If by chance you want to mold this vile animal & if it
pisses  in your hand , it would burn your hand 
& itch, as if you had handled nettles . But the most
powerful remedy  for this is to put your hand into
fresh earth  , & to cover it as if you wanted to bury it.
A frog  is not so beautiful molded because it has lively skin,
& the other has a lumpy one.

You can mold it hollow, and leaving under its belly an open notch, you
will make it jump with the twisted cord of the saw . Or else, if
it is a small, put it on a magnet  of its size, cut thinly, then
put it in good vinegar .

When it is big, one needs to mold it hollow, & if you want to make
it have an open mouth, put some cotton  inside, & then on the
cotton  some melted wax .

Killing snakes  for molding
Some put a drop  of aqua fortis  in their mouths,
which makes it really drunk, such that the head & the part behind
seem to be dead, but the mouth remains alive, and when you pierce it
with a needle  to fit it to the mold , it moves &
spoils & undoes everything. Therefore, to kill them entirely, put it
in a bottle  of good vinegar  & some eau de
vye  . And do thusly with lizards  & other similar
beasts.

If you want to keep them, you can put them in a pipe  full of
earth in a garden outdoors . But your pipe 
must be covered with archal wire  , for otherwise it would
climb & go up very high.

 110r
Molding
You could mold things and animals  already cast, but it
never comes out as well as the one from nature, with which you can make
four or five molds.

Rock  & grotto 
You need to pestle white & yellow marcasites  &
various kinds of mines  , & then wash them well, so
that the earthy & powdery is cleaned, & there remains only the
lustrous grain of the mine  , with which you will sprinkle
your rock  previously covered with colle forte  , if
your grasse  grotto  is
r   not for a fountain & for touching water, and
you will have a nice work.

Snakes 
When they feel taken, they hardly bite, & do not have the power
to harm, unless they are really big snakes . The main thing is
to keep from being bitten before catching them, and having put your
foot   on top of it, as close to the neck as one can,
one needs to grab it closest to the head, for it cannot bite if it does
not have the means to stretch its neck & make a sinuous &
oblique turn, & it cannot s   harm with a direct
attack, since he cannot move forward in a direct line, but writhes in
the shape of an S. I saw that the one who taught me to mold
them  did not take this into account, & assured me that there
was no trick to it, other than, when taking it, he would pull it, a
little pressed & held tightly by the neck, & passing it under a
shoe, he would flatten it in such a way that it would render
soubs   from its bottom, which is five to six
fingers   from the end of its tail, all nasty and
venomous things that it had in its stomach, and that after this, it does
not have the strength to bite, and if by chance it should bite or expel
through its bottom some filth, he would only dig the
earth   with a knife , & bury his
hand  in fresh & damp earth  , which, when
applied fresh en   on the infected part ,
pulls out all the venom, and nothing else. It is the same with
toad ’s venom, that I have seen experimented. 

In three, it is almost as thin that it will be after it does not eat.
Molding it as soon as it is caught is best, before it becomes thin. One
ought to kill it only a quarter hour   before you want
to mold.
 
 110v
 When it has eaten something, by tormenting it, it will render it.
And if, after having eaten something, it is thusly pressed
underfoot  , this pains it a lot & hurts it. If it
is wounded, it will not eat willingly.

Molds 
There is nothing better for opening them up than to smear them with
olive  oil , & nothing else. And afterwards, when you
want to disjoin them, soak them in cold water , which is the
secret. L  E  And you will see that the
oil  although it seems to be imbued, will detach itself, like
grease. Molds  become stronger in cold water . And hot
water  would dissolve them awkwardly, although once reheated, they
are more handleable & easier to dissolve in the
water .

Wheat  oil 
Is made on a blade of iron  reddened in the fire . And
the oil  drips off, which is appropriate for smearing the hair of
a butterfly  or similar thing, for this oil  is instantly
dry & makes the remainder dry out. It is necessary that the hair or
down of any animal that you want to mold be flat, for it were upright it
would elevate the sand & become porous.
#  If you want to mold
something delicate, like a pansy , some, to give it a little
thickness, more than what is natural, rub it with butter . But it
is best to smear it with wheat  oil  for it has no body
& does not obstruct the small lineaments as much, and makes the
flower firm.

Cast of lead  and tin 
Because tin  wants to be cast very thinly, if your medal,
plant or other thing for molding is espe   thin &
fine, do it so that there is more tin , much more than
lead , namely less than the fourth part lead  for three
parts tin  . And still, one puts lead  only to form an
alloy. On the contrary, if you want to mold something strong &
thick, put a lot more lead  in than tin . And in one &
the other you can put a little looking-glass tin , but only a
little, with a little resin , when you want to cast. Since
then, when molding with fine and new lead , I put into one
lb  two ounces  of fine tin . And when molding
with fine tin , I put in two ounces  of fine lead 
for one pound . I made plants & snakes  just like
nature. 
S   


I cast tin  almost red, and lead  the same, which however
had not remained in the fire for too long, for it becomes brittle and
calcines.

 111r
Reheating molds 
The frames  readily dry out & do not reheat. For
reheating is actually for the second time  to redden &
inflame the molds  in the fire, and drying out is to let the
molds  dry themselves, or to make their dampness evaporate by
placing them in front of a flaming fire or a charcoal one.
Noyau  molds  readily reheat & frame molds 
dry out.

Latten  smoke 


It is good to reheat in it the molds for casting latten  ,
for this g  c yellow filth , which
appears nevertheless to refill the molds , casts very neatly,
being of the same nature.

For red copper 
When it is melted, it is good to throw in a little fine tin ,
for this makes it run.

Clay earth 
This one, moistened & well beaten & kneaded as you know, is
necessary for you to make the contour for containing your
molds . But take heed that it not be too soft, but rather as if
half dry, that i  e lle  it does
not attack your hands   , because otherwise it
would attack your work. Always keep it in a damp place , and
make holes in it, and fill them with water , to keep it
fresh.

The gray one is best, which does not crack at all.

It is more appropriate than a blade of lead  .
 

Iron wire 
You need to have enough provisions of different thicknesses,
according to the molds  that you want to make, some large
like cord, some    & some thin p  ,
like the large cords of a spinet , for small works . You
make, once de   reheated, clamps from it to close the
molds  & the points, like needles of different lengths,
according to your need, to pierce the animal to be molded & keep it
subjected. Needles  would not be good for this because it is
necessary that their points be empty & of the same thickness
throughout, except at the point. And then, one must make them as long as
you have need of. Iron wire is firmer  than that of
latten .

 111v
Essence of sal ammoniac 
The size of two chestnuts    of pulverized
sal ammoniac  suffices in a pot   of water ,
and to the tongue   you find the water 
moderately salty  , for too much is not good.

Sanguine 
To clean the various colors of lead  & tin , one
pulverizes sanguine  & with some cloths , one rubs the
e   molded work .

Crab  and crayfish 


These are the hardest to mold & whoever molds them well will mold
many other very delicate things.

Lizards 
When one takes them with two fingers   from the
sides of the head, at the level of the ears, one makes them open their
g   mouth, then one takes the a  
end of its lower mandible, with the end of the
fingernail   , & after with the one from above
it bites the nail  , but it cannot pass through, but it
bites very well. And if it were to bite living flesh  it would
au   not let go, & there would be no better remedy
than to promptly cut off his head. In the spring , as they
have changed skin, they are more beautiful.


The small lizards  that one takes in the summer , the
size of small female lizards , grey on the back & green on
the belly, are very appropriate to cast in silver , &
gold , or other metal , because their have rougher scales
than the of female lizards  & show better.




like pincers 

Composition of sand
Everything once reheated as it said here above, take four 4 full
crucibles   of plaster , two 2 of brick ,
& one of alum de plume  . Do not pass through the
sieve  to mix, may   because the
alum   would not pass. Mix with your
hands  , until neither one nor the other, neither white
nor red, is recognised among the other. If your plaster  was not
strong, do not mix at all so much alum de plume  , because
it softens the molds . Take head also that your sand is not hot
(since it has immediately been reheated) C   when you
will want to mix it with water , for this les  
makes molds  too soft & breakable.




You may sometimes diminish the quantity of plaster  if you do not
find it strong enough to withstands fire & if it cracks
&  so that the part of crushed tiles  holds up, with
the alum de plume  , which you can also increase so that
it creates a better bond.

 112r
To soak sand
You need to have a big basin  full of water  to
q   soak the molds  to open them, a
tankard  full of common  water , a
lead  bowl  for soaking your sand, a small
wooden  spoon  to collect the soaked sand in the
bowl . The big basin  is pour
tr  

To make handles for your large oil  brushes , if you do
not have large enough feather  quills , take two of them,
& split them & join them together.
 
Decoction of sands
Already mentionned.

Molding en noyau . Mixture of sand
Having reheated your sand, namely the plaster , the
alum de plume   & the brick , & having
passed them finely through the sieve #  , mix them this way, take four parts  of
plaster , two of brick , & one of alum de
plume  . Mix them all together with your hands  ,
qu’il   in such a way that one cannot discern one from
the other. With your sand ready, you need to kill the animal that you
want to mold de   in this way.
#  except for the alum de plume   which
should be ground in a mortar .

Killing the animal for molding
It is necessary that you be scrupulous to not wound it at all in
taking it. And having put it in a glass  bottle d   with some bran , or in a barrel full  half full of fresh & damp earth , if you want
to stock them or keep them a long time , give them live
frogs  & not dead ones to eat, for if you keep them without
feeding them, they wither & grow thin, & have long wrinkled
skins. Thus the best would be to mold it as soon as
apres   possible apre   after it has
been taken. But before, kill it in this way. Place it in a clean
bottle or vessel  so that it collects no dust. And put inside a
sufficient quantity of good vinegar  & urine  so that it
can be covered. And shake & torment it inside, until it is dead,
which will be in on or a half hour  . But if you are
in a hurry

To know if it is quite dead, take it out of the vinegar  and take
it by the tail. If it moves it, do not mold it for it still has feeling,
& when piercing it, it would retract & spoil the mold.
Water  snakes  hardly bite.
 
 112v
 to cast, make him take through the mouth some good eau de
vye   or else mix a bit with the vinegar . And soon it will
be dead, without any lesion which deforms it. For large animals, for
whom one would need a lot of eau de vye  , one uses
vinegar  and er  urine . But for small
ones, only eau de vye  , which is done sooner. 


When your animal is dead, take it out & clean it scrupulously of its
old skin, if it sheds, or of the filth, or of the lice , like
lizards  have, and then apply thusly.


now put enough in a glass , & soak there & keep there
continually the head of the animal, or the whole of it, if it is not
big.


Take head, before it dies,to keep the eyes open, es  
by blocking the eyelids with a little of wax  or something
else.

Mouler   Making the arrangement and disposition
of the animal
Having made provision of fat earth   called
clay , that should be grey, because that commonly the best, or
another which has good binding & will should well prepared &
beaten, such that it is handleable without attacking the
hands   nor the work, make a lazagne  or like a
torteau  of this earth  equally flattened with a round
stick, which pastry-makers   use, which should be a little
thicker than a poulce   . And on this
tourtelle , arrange your animal, aya  
imitating in that its nature, & fa   the way in
which it is commonly shaped. And firstly, with a good needle ,
pierce it from underneath, in the middle of the throat, & up to
u     the top bone of the head. Retract the
needle , & in its place & its hole, put the point of
an iron wire  , of such a length that it suffices to hold the
head of the animal as q   high as it must be, & if
the skin gets in to the inside &  when you put in the
point , pull it out with a  point   the edge of your small pincers , &
arrange it as it was. Push the other end of the point  in the
tourtelle  of clay . Thus, the head will be held high,
which will have better grace &once fixed, arrange after the gesture
of the body, & the feet, & the entanglement as you think will
look best. And so that it is secure & does not move at all when you
throw in the sand, mects   secure the legs
& le corp   with little points of iron
wire  , having already made the first hole with a very sharp
needle . Do the same on the body parts that you deem necessary,
plantant   making sure that the points 
passing through the animal are fixed in the tourtelle  of earth,
and not so far in front that they jut out beyond the body of the animal
by a


Take a fine needle of steel  , & which is the sharpest
possible, so that with it, making the first hole to place the points
of iron  , it passes without forcing anything, & by its
harshness, does not push in or pull out the skin. Next, put in a bigger
point of iron   in thick places, & thin ones in thin
places. But head as a secret to not plant, in the first go, the
point  passed through the animal in the slab of earth ,
pour   but having planted it, take it out of the
earth  & not out of the animal, & fais
ains   next, fix it. This is done because by fixing it the
first time, it pushes in the skin of the snake  and by taking
the point out, it replaces the skin in its original state.


When you put the points  again you have already used, clean them
well of rust , so that they do not take away some skin.


The main layout of your arrangement is to di   place
the head raised & looking sideways. For this effect, pierce the head
on a solid plank or table &   , making the
point  pass through the bottom of the throat,
s’arrestan   entering into the top of the head

 
 
 113r
 bit qua   so that t   you can
take it out if you need to. And take heed that it is necessary that
these points  be of the most delicate iron wire  possible
to bear the size of the animals. For, the more delicate it is, the
smaller the hole that it leaves appears. However, one needs some of
different thicknesses, because il  de   the points  which are put in the body
& in thicker places, like under the throat, ought to be longer &
stronger than the ones of the legs & thin parts, where the
needles  ought to be subtle & delicate, almost like the
biggest strings of spinets  . And it is better that they
be of iron wire , which is firmer than the one of latten .
And if the end of the tail, or the end of a nail or a leg ought to be
joined to the body, do not put the point  there, not to corrupt
it. But place a piece of wax , as big as a grain of
millet   , between the body & ce  qui   the end of the tail, then with a bit of
flattened & hot iron wire , touch this wax  & join
by lightly pressing. Thus having placed your animal on the
tourtelle  shaped like a mandore , place all around a
circle of the same

 earth , in this way

  & join everything well together in a circle, then, with a
big knife , with which you have cut your tourtelle  to
the right size, pare the outside which exceeds it, & place there a
piece to close it as you see in b. Then, with a small curved
instrument , mark on the inside of the circle the thickness you want
to give to the mold , which will be for a common snake 
as thick as two poulces   , so that when you
throw in your wet sand, you will see when it is thick enough. All of
this scrupulously arranged, moisten well everywhere with good eau
de vye   with a pinceau   the body of the animal
which is uncovered. For this the secret de la plus  
kept well hidden, because everything that is v  
touched by eau de vye   will undoubtedly come out very
neatly & without bubbles  any small eyes or holes 
that we call bubbles, which usually come not at the back & in the
thick sides of the mold , but on the edges. And as soon as you
have thusly moistened everything with eau de vye  , throw
in your wet sand without letting the eau de vye   dry,
which evaporates promptly. And wet it thusly.
 

and make sure that the point  is long according to the height
you want the head, and that it be pointed on both ends. Once placed
thusly, plant your snake  on the slab of earth , &
arrange the head first and then the rest.


Eau de vye   in three goes.




If after you have placed you animal on your clay tourtelle , you are distracted with other occupations, rub your
animal with eau de vye   & under the belly so that it
does not dry & attach itself to the earth  


If, when you pierce your animal, it renders water  from the bottom
of the side of the belly, on the slab of earth , clean it well
with cotton  for the sand that would touch it would be lumpy. If
it is on top of the animal, clean it very scrupulously and touch it
&moisten well with eau de vye  .



Wetting sand and molding the first cast
Take a bowl of leaded earth   of such size that
it can hold the wet sand, which will be needed de   to
fill your mold  in one go, which is mei  
better than in two gos, because if you do not throw the second wet batch
very promptly, there is a risk that while you are preparing it, the
first one will set & become solid,
 
 113v
 such that while reheating the two casts will disjoin. Et
pour pl   Therefore, for this effect, take several bowls of
different size, which have a lip , to cast better. In these pour
some common fountain  water , & mix into it as
much essence of sal ammoniac  as can be held in an
egg  , #   composed as mentionned.
If you want to cast in lead  or tin  - because one would
need more for casting gold  & silver  - the
essence  once in your bowl , mesles  
put y   your sand in it & not the essence 
in the sand & add it a dista dista  with such
discretion that il  , while stirring & mixing it
promptly with a wooden  spoon , it does not become thicker
than clear  mustard . And thus throw
le   first the non-thick part, qui
es   as is always at the surface, in shakes &
da   at the top of your mold . And doing so,
since your animal is nearly covered, blow strongly everywhere in order
to dissipate the small and big bubbles that the wet sand makes &
continue without delay to put all the rest which is at the bottom, &
a little thicker than the top, until everything is filled, up to the
mark for thickness that you made.

  And do not forget to shake the mold affin   while throwing, so that the wet sand runs
& enters well everywhere. Also tip your mold  up on the side
of the head, which is higher than the body, and thus your mold 
will have the same thickness, & you will spare sand. All of this
being done scrupulously fai  , let it set, which will
take a quarter of an hour  . Then release the
clay  circle, which can be used another time. And leave it to dry
a little bit, & separate your mold  from the
tourtelle earth , which also de   will
be appropriate for molding right away, and pare the excess with a big
knife , giving to it the long shape of a mandore .
Rasche   Scrape & cut also away the back of
the mold  , which is always the weakest, and adapt it
cleanly thusly. And do not forget to make notches around, so that the
second cast fixes & binds better

  without changing.
If you can, fill  your half mold  in one go & with
la pre   one wet batch it is the best.
# or two eggs  , because there is no risk if there is more.
Et l’eau   If you cast in two goes, it is enough
to put essence of sal ammoniac  at the first bowlful. 


Make it clear like a broth of juices , or like starchy
water , that women  use to make their starch . For
there is no risk in it being very clear, because sand always settles in
the bottom & water  separates & remains on top. The same
that one scrapes since it is too weak & soft. And it will not let
itself set quickly, for all things calcined dry out promptly from mixed
water .
 

If you don't fill in one go your mold destrempe   with wet sand, take head to stir your
second cast with the e p   surface of the first,
p   by mixing with the spoon  or a
spatula  with which you wet it.
Essence of sal ammoniac  is not necessary for small
molds , which do not require neither a big nor a long fire to be
reheated, however, when you put some in it will only be better.  

Second cast 

 114r
Second Cast
When you have well molded the first part of the animal, that is the
back, the backbone, and the entire top part, and the
len   half-mold  where it is enclosed has set
and is hard enough

  uncover the whole bottom part & side of the belly,
#  first with a knife & tant  
at the thickest places, & then with a pen-knife , where the
most delicate parts are enclosed, such as the legs, the tail, &
similar things, and because the head is higher, you will also need to
look for it & uncover deeper, and made a deeper notch there which
ought to release easily. That is to say widening by the outside, so that
the second mold  that you will cast on it can come out well,
which even the animal can help with, which is malleable and obedient,
having naturalness. However ad  , be more scrupulous
when uncovering the throat of the lizard  rather than the
snake , for the lizard  has big jaws & big bones
that are not malleable, and has hollow ears, where the wet sand has
entered, is not aff   easy to release. But you will
avoid all of this, if you uncover half of the head and those things that
you know do not release easily. Once everything is uncovered well, blow
on top & wipe each part, by wiping with little cloths of
swine  fur  , slightly moistened by the end, with a
little saliva , or with clear water , as you dissolve
it , so that your  the uncovered lower part of your
animal will be very neat. #  🝋   With this done, dip le
rev  your mold  your mold, for the length
of a pater noster    in water , not
du  le   the uncovered side but
opposite, & the reverse of the uncovered thing. And this is so that,
by sucking the water inside , the oil  with which
you smear after the other side pour eviter  , is not
imbibed at all, but remains on the surface & prevents the second
cast that you will cast on it from attacking it. Having therefore thusly
dipped the reverse of  your mold  in the water ,
take a pinceau   especially dedicated to this, &
en oings   with it smear some oil  the whole
surface of the mold , except the animal, which must in no way
touch the oil , & take head to retrace & smear well with
the point of a pinceau   between the parts & through
all the delicate parts. And if by chance the oil  is imbibed, dip
the mo   reverse of the mold  as mentioned in
water , & you will see the oil  return to the surface in
little drops.


Mold small animals like big ones, except that you need to make
delicates points of fil  cist  cittern  strings  , both long & short.
 

Remove with your small flat pincers , all the
points .
# 

and then

+ tantost avecq  
# 

However, leave the point  of the throat, so that it serves as a
clue to find the head, which is deeper down than any other part, because
when making the arrangement you arranged it higher. It is also at the
level of the head that you should make the biggest notch & start
with this one to uncover, and follow the rest through the trace of the
points .
# 

And if some bit of nail from a leg, or from a tail, or from another
should separate from the mold , put y  
between but a small grain of wax , & with the point of a
hot iron wire  , join it then adapt your mold  with a
knife , & make there notches at the sides, so that the other
half binds to it.🝋  
 
 114v
  This thus prepared, place your de   first
half-mold  on the tourtelle  of earth  clay , & put the circle also around, & make the mark for
the thickness similar to the first. Then, with another rather thick
pinceau  , moisten well everywhere the uncovered half
& le ventre   of your animal
Et  with eau de vye   ,
without leaving anything, if it is possible, which is not moistened, for
this is the secret, which makes it come out neat. And next, as promptly
as possible, before the eau de vye  ne   evaporates, wet your sand, and throw it, in
shakes, and while blowing, & moving the mold , as you did
for the first one, making sure that the premier q  
first thing you pour on the animal should be a little clearer than the
next one, so that it moistens everywhere &retrace the more delicate
parts. So, leave it for a quarter hour   to set, then
remove the circle & the clay tourtelle . And, with a
knife , arrange your two molds  uniformly together in a
long shape of a mandore , as mentioned, because of the cast.
Then dip a little the whole mold  evenly, at the level of the
joints, in water , for this is another secret to disjoint them,
otherwise you will break everything. Separate them nimbly, therefore by
this mean, and next, extract gently & with patience and immediacy
the half of the animal remaining in one of the molds ,
for  pulling it sometimes from one side & sometimes from
the other, to avoid breaking any of it, or also spoiling something from
your mold . Et   The latter being empty,
retire   rejoints the two halves so that no dust
enters it, & put them aside until you want to reheat them, make a
cast & vents, & place clamps . As for the animal, so
that it does not dry & that you might be able to mold it four of
five times, put in in water . And I think that it would keep even
better in eau de vye  . However, the best would be to mold
in the same day  the 4 or 5 molds  that you can do,
because these infected animals themselves are stinky  in one
day  . Having left your molds  one or two
es  days   to dry, for they stay
damp for a good month  , make the vents on one
half. 
+  Note that when you have made your second
cast , if you leave your mold , for one
day   or a night  , without opening
it, you would need to then dip it in hot water , or else reheat it
before opening it, as for crabs .


If after both halves of the noyau have made a strong & hard set, you
would not dip your mold  in water , it would not disjoin
at all. But as you dip the reverse of the mold  in water ,
the imbibed oil  collects at the top & at the level of the
joints & and makes it separate.


However, take heed your second mold  be of good thickness &
that it is hard enough because if it is lacking in this, after having
dipped it in water , & you want to open it, there is a risk
that it breaks. Take heed therefore to avoid this, and wanting to open
it, dip all of it in water , and rub it everywhere ,
where it will harden if it has set well.Then, take your two
molds , joined with a rough linen  cloth , in in
order to have a better grip, and separate them with strength as if you
wanted to quarter a loaf of bread . But if happens to break, join
it & on the reverse, strenghten the joints with clamps .

 


Next, you can repair the faults with small chisels .

 

 115r
 
if you want, which will be enough, or else on the two halves. But
because one needs to cast by the tail or from the back of the animal,
make it so that the vents come from the head & the middle of the
body to respond to the tail, where the cast is done, which is the end of
the mandore. And having done your cast, do not forget to make in it some
holes and notches because the metal will run more neatly, as if the cast
was even, for it gets corrupted in its notches & holes, &does
not go so much at once, & does not become as porous. This done, join
the two halves of your mold & strengthen the joints, putting around
these some small clamps of iron wire of this shape. They prevent the
molds from deforming & corrupting while reheating.

 Warning about the above said.
If your snake has been without eating for a long time, it happens
that, when you want to kill it in urine  & vinegar , it
fills with a lot of water  & swells, and next it dries out as
you fix & arrange it on the clay tourtelle , and next it
happens that when you have cast your wet sand on it, & it has set,
it ends up coming out such that between the snake and animal there is a
line of distance, in which enters the second batch of cast wet sand.
Avoid this therefore if you can. But if this cannot be, do not let this
prevent your second cast, for the sand which will enter in this void,
will be so weak that it will easily be removed with a small point, &
will not have set with the first hardened one.
Note that one needs more alum de plume   for molds
which should be reheated, like those for gold  &
silver , & things that one needs to burn inside, than those
which release well, & and that are only for casting lead 
& tin . However do not put too much in one or the other. 

Animal after release
If, by chance, you gave your snake such a writhing shape, such that
the place of the stomach cannot easily come out, especially since the
head & the tail, which are the two ends, are thinner, cut everything
which is outside, & reheat the mold so well that what remained
inside burns, then pass some quicksilver inside & attracting the
ashes & the burnt bones from the inside, it will also come out,
because the conduit is big, & thus will not sour at all your
substance. You can pull really strongly the molded snake, because it is
soft & malleable & obedient & the mold, having set, is so
firm that because of this the imprint will not be spoiled at all. 

A reheating of the molds
After your molds have been reheated & and cleaned, the sooner
casted is best, because if you keep them, they get corrupted and
dampened. Reheat the thickest, where the body of the animal is, cast as
soon as possible, because if you keep your molds it will corrode and
become damp. Reheat the thickest part, where the body of the animal is,
at the top, so that , if there is something inside to burn, it falls to
the bottom.
Mark the part on top to recognize it
It is only a good thing to leave the mold to cool a little outside,
one well reheated, because it remains red on the inside when you will
cast.

It is the shape of the clamps
  
 115v
Tin  casting
If the plant  or flower  that you want to cast is
delicate & fine, it is necessary that the tin  exceeds
lead  in the mixture & on the contrary, if it is thick, it is
necessary that lead exceed. Therefore for the fine thing, put in some
fine tin, not all the quarter part of lead. And make sure that your mold
is hottish, such that you can hold it in your hand, when you want to
cast. As for the alloyed tin ,the same as mentioned, it is
necessary that it is very hot & almost red for casting, so that it
penetrates. Otherwise, having to run the length of the fine branches of
the plant, it will get cold before arriving there. And no forget to mix
in it a little looking-glass tin , which makes it run better &
firms it up.

In the lead  alloyed with tin , or tin  alloyed with
lead , you can put a little bit of metalline  & it
will seem silver. But do not put too much, for this hardens the
substance & sours it also, so that for a delicate thing like legs
& similar things, it would not be appropriate.

To give vent to the mold
In addition to your vents, if your plant is very fine, you can pass
a thread through the clay circle, rather than casting with a needle,
& make sure it passes through the plant. And with thread, burning
like the plant, a hole will remain, which will give air & venting,
to help clean.

Do not pull out your reheated molds from the fire, before they have
cooled themselves & take care that neither the wind or the cold hits
them while very hot, for this would make them burst. One must not reheat
them before they are dry and firmed up for they would cast in a
different way, and it is necessary before hand to make gates & vents
& place clamps.

Reheating noyau  molds
After your molds have their gate, vents & clamps, as mentioned,
make at the end of the forge, or in some clean place, a surrounding of
bricks, and fill it with large half lit charcoal. And place your molds
on top, and leave the charcoals thusly to light by themselves for a half
hour, so that they heat little by little and not all at once. Finally as
they begin to become white, beat the thusly half-lit large charcoals on
top & blow with your little bellows, until they are warmed. And
thusly, little by little, invigorate the fire, without haste, until you
molds are well red on the outside & the inside. If it is for casting
some plant or some animal which does not release well & in this
case, one needs to burn it in the mold & when you look through the
gate & through it you see the molds are very red & inflamed
inside,this will be your signal that they are reheated enough. But if
you do not see this signal, increase &continue the fire until it is
the case. If there is nothing in the mold that needs burning, it will be
enough that they are dried well on the same fire, if it is for casting
tin, they reheat better in a reverberatory furnace.
image  
Take care not to heat the fire in one go, for fear that your molds crack
inside.

They are reheated enough when the entire hole of the gate is red. When
it is black, it is not enough.

For casting in silver, one must not reheat two times, if there is
nothing in the mold that needs burning, simply because it does not
release well. All the molds of farriers are reheated two times, first
for
 
 116r
Molding  bouquets, plants and flowers


One needs to mold them as soon as they are picked because they wilt and
dry out. Dip them, therefore, immediately in good freau de
vye   & then put them in your wet sand , like
snakes . For which one needs no release, for while the
mold s being reheated, the plant  burns, which does not
happen with animals, which have bone s. It is necessary that for
bouquets, the sand be not as thick as for snakes  because, if it
were thick, it would crush the flower .


 

burning the plant s, flower s, and animal  parts
remain inside. Next one needs to clean them & remove the ashes.
Secondly, reheat them & render them red for casting. At the
beginning, reheat with some charcoals, gently lit, and put your
noyau mold s flat on the charcoals  surrounded by
bricks .  Frame molds  are reheated on a grill .



Noyau molding  with the same sand, wax 
images, or lead  medals, and similar things
Check if they release well. If they do not, fill with wax 
what does not, and then smear your images of wax  or of
lead  with olive oil, very thinly & very lightly, such that
the oil makes no thickness nor body on the medal.Then, heat a little
eau de vye   & when it is lukewarm, moisten the
oiled  medal with it, for if the water  were cold, it would
reject the oil , it would not set well. Next, cast your sand of
plaster , matton  , and wet alum  on top.
Having arranged your image on the clay mandore & having made a
circle around it to give it the necessary thickness. These medals are
oiled  and rubbed thusly with eau de vye   because
they are firm & hard & would not malleable for taking out of the
mold, which is tenacious, as are the animals from nature, which are soft
& flexible.


When you have wet your sand, do not throw it in the middle of the
mold , but on the sides, so that the sand descends gently, and
that the beginning is not thick & afterwards thick. If your wet sand
sounds like water falling in the mold, it is a sign that is not thick
enough. Make it therefore of average thickness.



Casting  for gold  and silver 


It is necessary that the molds  be fiery red & ablaze when
you cast in gold  & silver  , or you burn
flower s and bouquet s. The gate should not be very
thick at the entryway of the molded thing, because the substance flows
better when at ease and without shaking the mold & does not become
as porous.



A way to unmold enamel gold  
very delicate gold rose  leaves and others


After you have cast or beaten in gold  the thin leaves of a
rose  or other things, if you want to enamel  them, you
need to solder  or braze your delicate gold  leaves onto
silver strips , which uy   will strengthen them
to support the enamel . Next, once the thing has been
enameled , put the work in aqua
d  fortis  , which will eat away the
silver  & leave all the gold  with its enamel .
For this, the gold  needs to be passed  

 116v
Molding snakes  at all times
Because in the winter they hide within the earth, some feed them a
lot in barrels filled with earth & covered with manure .
Others make several mold s in summer , because with
one snake, you can make four or five. And others mold, lengthwise, a
snake, naturally without it writhing, with common plaster ,
reheated as said, en noyau  & in two half molds, as said,
then they cast it in wax . In that way they have snakes 
that they can twist as they like, and then they cast them in metal, as
is said.

If, in twisting the snake from wax, some parts become undone, you can
repair it by removing the flaws from the molded wax .

Mixture of tin  and lead 
For delicate plants  & other flowers  or thin
foliage , the fine tin ought to exceed the lead more than three
times. And if it is a thick & coarse material, the lead ought to
exceed by more than three parts. Heat the mostly tin  mixture,
until it is almost red & very hot. And when you want to cast, in
removing your crucible from the fire, throw in two or three grains of
resin , & for one lb  & a half or two of
lead  or tin , put with the resin as much looking glass tin
as the size of a hazelnut with its shell, & mix & cast. And make
sure that there is more of the metal  than is needed, in order
that some is left. However, if there is not enough, finish casting,
&it will take. But it will not be so neat. After, dip your mold into
water , & with a point release it carefully, so that nothing
is spoiled. Make your cast  elongated. If the material is very
thin, one needs for it to be almost all tin.


If you mold more  want to cast in lead  or tin en noyau  in the aforementioned sand,
reheat your mold once, only if there is nothing to burn within. But if
it is for plants , flowers  & animals  to be
burnt,one needs to reheat it two times, however not as much the second
time for lead & tin as for silver &gold. For for these, they
ought to be red when you cast, but for lead and tin, let it cool until
you can you can hold the tip of your finger in the cast without burning
yourself, in such a way you find a lukewarm heat. 

Cast for Copper  and latten 
For red copper  one needs to put sal ammoniac , which
cleans & cleanses it of all its crust when it is well melted. There
are some who put in large pieces of old leather  new leather.
Others parings of the feet of field mice  . Others melted
common salt  alone, or melted with saltpeter . The principal
is sal ammoniac  & a little fine tin, as to what you want to
cast. Red copper  is more troublesome to melt M  than
latten . But when it is well melted it runs better, especially if
it is alloyed d’un  with latten . Latten alloys itself
with a quarter of copper ,and one puts it in like in copper. But
particularly, a little calamine  makes it run well.

 117r
A means to mold flowers  and plants 
One needs to choose them in their full verdure & vivacity, &
les mou  not pick them, if possible, until the time one will
want to mold them, so that they do not wilt. Or if you need to carry
them from afar, soak their stems in a bottle of water , or better
still wine . Make, firstly, a wax  stick pointed like a big
peg, of a size appropriate to what you want to cast, as you see in the
margin, marked A. Put & prick at the foot of this small peg a bit of
iron  wire, rather thick & strong. And at the point of this,
you will fit your flower  stem or your plant . This
done, set it aside neatly. And arrange your mold of t  circle
and shape of clay  as you have done for the snakes , in
the form of a mandore in such a way that  according
to the size of your plant . Then take the one that you have
prepared to be cast, as we have taught you, & wet & moisten it
very carefully with good eau de vie  with a pinceau . Then
pass the wire stem through the end of the earthen mandore , in order that the wax  peg, where the
plant  is fastened, joins to the end of the earthen mandore . And arrange thusly your plant  in such a way
lying down that it remains in the middle of aforesaid mandore ,
without touching on either side, so that a  the sand that you
will pour in it will be of equal thickness as  everywhere,
& is   exceeds everywhere by the height of two
good fingers  the top of the such plant . And
having secured the wire stem well, pour quickly wet  your
wet sand , much clearer than the one for snakes, in the
mandore . And the sooner the better, in order that the eau de
vie  does not dry. And take heed to put in a little more water of
sal ammoniac  among the common than you would do for the snakes. And
when you will make sand especially for your bouquets, where you would
mix in a little more feather alum , it will be that much better.
Thus your mold will be in one piece and it will not be necessary to take
it apart, but rather leave  separate it from the clay 
once it will have set, let it dry, and then reheat it again until the
plants are burnt. And note that if the plant you want to cast has a
strong stalk & stem, you can cast it lying down, as had been said.
But if it is some weak & delicate flower, cast  plant it
upright with the wax  peg because the sand will always
cast  lift it up, it being very clear. Do not forget to adapt
two vent holes with two small sticks , starting at the foot of
the cast, which is the pointed end of the wax  peg.

If the plants s are so delicate that they rise to the top when
you pour the wet sand , one can stop and contain them with a
thread  passed through the circle of the mold with a
needle .
  
The more delicate the flower  is, the clearer the sand must
be.
Mold en noyau .  
 117v
To make the ashes of flowers  and plants  leave
molds 
Some mix  put quicksilver  inside it. But, if it is
a little work, or fine & delicate foliage, that only has
p  a slender exit, they make two errors: the first, that
quicksilver  by its heaviness can break f  some delicate
feature inside when shaken, the other, that some grains will always
linger inside that will make metals  sour & hinder the
perfection of the cast. It is true that if it is to empty the
mold  of some animal which is large & which has big conduits
& passages by which the quicksilver  can easily exit, like a
bird or a serpent, one can indeed put in it some
quicksilverpou   to break by shaking the calcined bones
of the animal, because the aforesaid ☿  will come out & not
remain at all.

The asparagus  stalk is so hard that most often it remains as
charcoal. Because of this, dry it out beforehand, or wet it with oil
of sulfur  & turpentine , or cast separately the little
branches & solder them onto a fat stalk drawn through the wire
drawing plate.

If the burnt thing has left some filth or ash, let it cool a little,
& with an iron wire  wrapped in cotton  that can
bend according to the cavities that you have to search out, clean &
blow out this defect, or with a soft brush  or a clipped
pinceau .

Daisies 
They can be cast well in gold . But if you want to
enamel  them, you have to make them by hand & enamel 
them & then attach them. Otherwise, the leaves  would be so
pressed together that the enamel would muddle together there. 

Sand  that was used
Do not cast it. But because it is mixed with alum de plume ,
you can use it in the mixture of other things & it can serve in
place of brick .

Molding en noyau  figures of wax  or medals or
lead 
Rub them with oil  with a pinceau , but let it be so
lightly that your medal is almost rubbed dry & that it hardly
appears to have been smeared. After destr  rub it with eau
de vye  and heat the water  with which you will wet your
aforementioned sand , with plaster , brick  &
alum , in order that being chau  like lukewarm when you
cast it, the oil  will not refuse it, as it does with cold water,
& do not forget when moistening your sand  to always mix in it
a little sal ammoniac .

Medals mold  in such a way very neatly.

Blood of snakes 
If you need to cut some snake inside the mold  to burn it,
cut it far from the entrance of the mold  in order that no
blood  at all remains, for it would make a crust that afterwards
would not be taken away by the same quicksilver  & would
remove the imprints from your mold .

 118r
Snails 
Those which are found in the sea  & similarly those in
which certain small crabs dwell are very beautiful for grottoes, if they
are stripped of the first crust of their shell with aqua
fortis  , for they truly appear to be made of
mother-of-pearl .

For removing flaws and flashing from things molded en
noyau 
If your molds  are of good plaster  which withstands
well the fire& , they will not crack at all, especially
if, with presses, they are well squeezed well between two tablets or in
a vessel  filled with ashes  or sand, & in this way
they will make any flaws. But if they do make some, you can remove them
with a burin  that one calls chaple  , which has
a tip like a small chisel .

For grottoes 

The old vine  stocks 
Stones made from water  called stuf  ;
charcoal ; the compound of tin  & fine latten ;
paper pestled  & mixed with pestled glass ; cork ;
heated parchment ; white coral  are appropriate for making
grottoes . But fantastical pieces of wood  which are
found in the forests  & mushrooms   and
potirons    of trees, once dry, are better than
all because they are light. One mixes in small pieces of
looking-glass tin  which has a shiny luster. One finely pestles in
a different kind of marcasite  which one washes to cleanse them of
earth , &one dusts the work with it, which is very beautiful.
If there is no fountain in the grotto , one glues all
al   of this with colle forte , which 
and it is soon done. Have examples of all kinds of mines .
The sulfurous marcasites  which do not have a grain but are even
like looking-glass tin  are very beautiful. 
Rosette   is found sometimes mixed with certain brittle
lumps which are pulverized under the hammer , which are very
beautiful pulverized on grottoes .

Looking-glass tin 
It whitens and renders firm fine tin  if en
on   one puts in  in one ounce of it, that is to say,
i ℥  of looking-glass tin  in one lb  of
fine tin .

Sal ammoniac 
It Sal ammoniac water  is very natural for
casting  in gold  and in silver .

 118v
Casting in frames 
The same sand that was used in the reheated noyaulx ,
composed, as is said, of plaster , brick  & alum
de plume   , is excellent for casting in frames , and I
have experienced it thus: I crushed the pieces which had come out of
molds en noyau  in a mortar , dragging the
pestle , because this sand is very doulx . I did not
pass it through the sieve , because the alum de
plume   mixed throughout, which binds it, would not pass; but I
ground finely upon marble  what seemed to me too coarse. And
having prepared it thus, I moistened it with sal ammoniac water ,
made of sal ammoniac , as much as the size of two
walnuts  , in a bottle of common water , the same
size as a bottle  in which one boils tisane , or in a good
pot  of water  so that you find the water 
moderately salty. I mixed throughout water  of  half a
glass  of sal ammoniac , two othe  two au
t silver spoonfuls  of eau de vye  .
J’a  Having thus moistened the sand in such a way that it took
hold well, nevertheless coming apart easily, I sprinkled my medal with
pulverized charcoal  with a file , to rid it of
oil , and all other grease , that are necessary to avoid,
for they make  would hinder a good release. I blew on my medal
& molded it, and the female part of the frame  once filled,
I marked & made a line on the reverse of the  & edge
of the medal, & on the nearby sand as well. In order that the second
frame s’em  take the imprint thereupon to denote the
place for making the cast, once filled the female part of
the box mold once filled  I uncovered the outline of the medal and
pounced the whole side with pulverized charcoal , and then filled
the male part with sand. Once mad  I separated the
frame  and did not hit the corners of the d  medal to
make it release, because that knocks the sand & makes it
esp  crumble. Rather I struck the back of the frame ,
retaining the obverse of the medal on the bottom, and it molded very
neatly. If it had not stripped thus, I would have waited to remove it
until the frames  had been dried out over fire. I lit
the  a row of charcoals  between two little
trivets  of iron  in the form that you see, and put the
back the  & reverse of the frames  thereupon,
& the imprint on top,  

because in this way, they dry out gently. And if, by chance, they should
crack from being too moistened, it is on the back,which pr 
takes the harshest fire, & the imprint remains safe &
whole.

For the best, one needs to reheat the sand used in the noyau 
before using it in the frames , until it no longer
contracts.


Excellent sand Take a little of the same sand, the finest that you can, to cover
the medal with.

For medals & flat things, the true heat of lead  &
tin  is when it is melted gently.

Note that I filled the frame  before pressing it, and did not
hit it at all, but rather pressed it only with the strength of my
hands , because hitting it makes it go awry. Secure your
frame  that it does not shift at all, & if you put some
moistened sand under it, it will only hold in place more firmly.

Make the gate so that it is not too thick, so as not to overcharge the
medal, but wide enough near the medal that it embraces a third part. Do
not forget the vents.

To dry frames  is to keep them from humidity, so that they no
longer smoke, once nevertheless having been very hot.
Recuire   is to redden the frame, which is done for
gold  and for silver .

 119r
  As I saw that they did not smoke anymore, & that, scratching
the back & the front of the cast & having found that they are
rough & firm & hard on one side and the other, which is a good
sign of their being quite dry, I left them to cool. I took some fine
tin f , one lb , & one ounce of lead
fine & new . I melted it in a crucible until it was a
little  like a bit red. Being in this way quite hot I smoked
& not p  & being ready to cast & not before, I smoked
with the smoke of a tallow candle  all sides of my frames &
imprints & cast & everything. I set my frame, well joined, in
the press. I drew my crucible from the fire. I left it a bit
pass  so that the redness at the bottom of the crucible could
fade. And wanting to cast, I threw in two or three grains, like pitch
rosin, & when & when the measure of a bean of looking-glass
tin  & I mixed, & stirred a little the crucible, and I cast.
And the medal came out as neat as the original. I smoked it with the
candle & cleaned it with small brushes .

Always cast through the foot of the medal because the head, which is
lower, will come out better, & make the cast longish. And when you
will cast in a large frame several medals, they will come out
better.

Advice about the above
 Good tin  is that which is hard as silver  & soft
nevertheless. If your work is thin, it must be almost all tin 
& alloyed as is said.
Looking-glass tin  must not be smoked  mixed until
the instant that you want to cast.
 Nor must the forms be smoked until then.
 If the sand  shrinks in the frame, this means that it must be
reheated & reddened on the fire.
Good sand  when moistened does not stick at all to the hand
when pressed.
The perfect sand  for the frame is aspalt  
which is found in Germany, which is soft as flour &
almo  when wet, and almost all the others are lumpy.
Nota  that the cast must be thin & hardly thick in order
that it does not overtax the material at all, and must not exceed the
thickness of the width of a grain of wheat , likewise for
tin , that wants to be cast very thinly. For lead , a little
thicker. There is no need to make the vents very large & deep
either.

For frames, the sand  that you use for the noyau  of the
composition aforementioned is excellent. But in washing, crushing &
reheating it several times, it must be corrupted from its nature &
so that it will no longer be fit to grip & for molding en
noyau .

 119v
Way to prepare aspalt  spat
It is found in earth in Germany , the color of cooked
plaster, made of long filaments, very soft to handle. And because it is
mixed with earth and filth, one pestles it roughly &one makes little
balls, having, for this purpose, soaked it in sal ammoniac water  of such a composition that you were told above. One places
these balls to reheat in the fire of the furnace of the potters, then
one soaks it again in the same water . The earth and the
coarseness and go to the bottom, and the pure aspalt , which is
light & soft and handleable as wet flour , adheres with the
water  and goes to the surface, clouding the water , empty
that cloudy part in a separate receptacle. Having sat, one, one empties
the water  by tilting, or by taking it away with a sponge, and the
pureaspalt  remains at the bottom. Dry it & employ it in
frame, having been moistened with sal ammoniac water . And
try it in the frame, in which it shrinks when reheated or dried, that is
to say that one needs to reheat it again on a good fire and redden it.
Thus, for medals and flat things, you should use this one, because it is
the most perfect of all for gold , silver , copper ,
lead , latten , & tin , for it withstands the fire
& reddens whenever need be, without corrupting. The more it is used,
the b  better it is, & it does not spoil. At the beginning
it is white, & being used it becomes grey. However make sure to put
aside the one that served for casting lead  & tin  &
latten , for gold  would sour in it, & would not come
out of it well. And to do this better, you could put it aside to be used
for each metal. 


See Gesnerus, De lapidibus




It endures ten or twelve castings without corrupting, it withstands the
fire & reddens, it is suitable for all metals. It is so tenacious
that should the frame be straked, it holds.




The spat  almost does not set, even though it is reheated & is
a kind of plaster . Raw, it breaks easily with the fingers.

Excellent secret for molding hollow and very delicately in fine
gold 
Cast with your aforementioned sand your animal and lizard 
or other thing with argent de billon  & it will come out
very neat. E  But take heed to mold it hollow, or at least
leave a small hole, in its mouth or in another place. Next, gild it with
fine gold , as uniform as it will be possible for you, three or
four or five times, & until your gold  has the thickness of a
piece of paper  or something similar, & all the scales will
always show equally. Next, put it in good aquafortis , which, by
this hole, will corrode the billon  & the gold  will
remain hollow & light & wonderful.

 120r
Medals stamped from the wax 
You can mold in wax , mixed with a bit of resin  so it
will be harder & firmer, the relief of whatever you please, either
an animal or a medal, & then, from it, make a hollow of latten or
copper. Or hit it  mold it in relief and hammer it in a sheet
of tin, Et pu  and then fill with lead & heat it. Try
sheets of gemstone leaves molded in hollow for lizards &.

Sand  for casting in gold 
Take common sand  of alum , of plaster  &
brick , according to the composition as said above. Add to it some
more alum de plume . And mix in not the whole of a third part of
crocum ferri . However its quantity cannot be harmful, for it is
that which receives the gold, & thanks to which it comes out very
neatly. But it is good that your crocum  will have been previously
in the furnace of glassmakers , three or four  days
and three days  and three nights, in a flat box, where it will
be not very thick, so that it will reheat better.

You could cast well gold  in common sand  of
goldsmiths , should you add some substance that makes it run.
Before the invention of crocum , one would cast flowers in
silver , but not at all in gold. It has not been forty years that
one knows this in Germany.
Sublimate  is commonly employed by goldsmiths  for
gold . Some add sulphur , but they & others are wrong,
for sulphur  sours, even as it heats. And the sublimate  is
agitated, boils and bubbles. It is very good to clean gold 
because by its exhalations, it draws everything out as it goes up in
smoke. But to warm gold , & conserve its heat, there is only
the color, which is verdet , sal ammoniac ,
saltpeter , & borax . This makes it run & you can
throw in a branch of wormseed.

Il Nightingale
One needs for the cage, made like those for larks in barns &
lined with green fabric, to be made with a drawer underneath, to refresh
its fresh earth everyday, for it takes much delight in this, & mix
in it some ants. You can carry an ant-hill with its earth in a barrel
full of earth, & keep them there & they will lay their eggs
there, in order to always have some at hand when you want them, should
you take pleasure in feeding nightingales. When you caught it, it is fat
& full, &, thusly, to keep it in its strength, one needs to, for
the first day, luy  take it in their hand & open its beak
& put in its beak with a sharp twig some mutton heart or other
delicate flesh, chopped up not too finely, in order to fill its stomach
& keep it from diminishing & growing leaner, until it has gotten
over its fancy. The next day you will give him  And you will
feed it in this way three or four times a day, & will also make it
drink. The next morning, you will give it in his cage some well-minced
flesh with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and change it two or three
times a day, for it will not eat it if it is hardened & if it is not
fresh. And if it goes half a day without eating, one needs to feed it as
before & do so until it
 
 120v
eats by itself. And to entice it better, you could add amongst the
meat & the egg some live mealworms, for it finds them very
tasty.

Crocum ferri 
It is excellent plastered on wounds to stop the blood. The best is
made of needle filings .
Crocum ferri  hardens molds, being reheated, & alum de
plum , as much as there is some, renders them softer &
doulx .

Anatomy
You must skin the animal and boil it. Or skin it and put it into
quicklime .

Making silver  run
If it is for a large work, arsenic  & pulverized
tartar  & thrown on the melted silver , makes it run
If it is  and it suffices. But for fine work, one needs aes
ustum , small filings of latten  of copper, du antimony , sublimate , finely pulverized. This 
All of this makes a mass that does sour at all. If the s plaster  is good, one ought not add crocum  for
silver , but one puts more alum de plume .@ It needs also
some melted common salt , & some saltpeter  with the
aforementioned drugs: arsenic, tartar, aes ustum, copper filings,
antimony  & 
Sc iscitatio dubia 

A bit of tallow , and some arsenic .
 
+ See the second folio following this 

Flowers can also be kept in their same beauty in distilled
vinegar  in a vase, well-sealed so it takes no draft, well-sealed
with wax  and mastic . Carnations and roses, the residue of
common vinegar  makes them rot. If the sand  makes dust, and
sticks to the flowers and hardly comes off with a brush, it is no good.
The most lean is the best.

Keeping dried flowers in the same condition all year
River sand , that is washed by the current of water, is good when
strained in a cloth to make the powder compact.
This is a rare secret, and which is pleasing for decorating tables,
rooms, studies out of season when winter denies you flowers. Be advised
to pick them when they are in full vigor and still growing, because if
you take them when no longer in bloom or when they are starting to wilt,
they will not keep. Having therefore chosen them, take some sand ,
the leanest and driest you can find, that must be very well ground, like
the one goldsmiths  use to sand enamel , or like the one
used  for engraving. But this sand  must not be dusty at
all, nor must it stay on your hand or leave a trace when you have ground
or poured it, because it is
+ 

Make sure your box is well sealed so that the sand  does not get
out. Keep it uncovered in sunlight and keep it away from the evening
dew, and the moisture of the night, and cover it and keep it in a dry
place.

You can not put these aforementioned flowers in big vases, because if
you want to take one out, you will take the whole bunch with it. 

Be advised to not pick your flowers when it is rainy or humid, but when
the sun has been shining on them.
 
 0121r
 a sign that there is some humidity, and if the flower was also
somewhat watery it would rot. Nor should it be   too rough, because
its weight would burden the flower and make it lose its original shape.
Once you have chosen it as needed, take a box  and inside this
start by making a small mound of sand on top of which you will lay the
stalk of the flower flat, so that the flower touches neither the bottom
nor the edges of the box  but remains in the air. Then add more
  sand on the stalk so that it remains firm and fixed. Finally take
some of the same sand and pulverize and sprinkle it finely with two
fingers   on the flower, imitating the flow of an
hourglass  . And once the flower is   half covered
or so, strike with your fist   the table on which the
box  is laid, so that the sand drops and enters everywhere.
Finally cover the entire flower and lay other flowers in order, one over
the other, as many as the box  will hold. After you have
arranged them thus, put the box  out in hot sun  for
several days  . And while the flower is drying, the
sand that is packed together, by continuously holding it, does not allow
it to shrivel and shrink. On the contrary, it needs to dry remaining in
the same state as when you put it there. But to that effect take care
you chose knapweed s, marigold s, the yellow meadow
flowers  called ranunculus   or palta
lupina  , amaranth s, and similar flowers, such as
broom  and others that you will know from experience.


The sand that goldsmith s use to rub enamel s and the
white one that glassworker s use and any thin sand that does
not set, you put through a sieve  made of horsehair 
because it needs not be too thin. Then dry the sand well in the
sun  for several days   in order to remove
its humidity, and ventilate it as you would do with wheat  so that
the dust becomes separated from it. After taking that dust, well dried,
use it as you know.
Pansies  are preserved in the same way.

Keeping fruits throughout the year  
You need to pick them in calm and quite dry weather & by the
stem, without touching  the fruits with your hand , and
to put them into glass  bottles  that have wide necks,
such as tall glass jars  for preserves. Protect them with
straw  or something else so that they may not break, and seal them
well with wax  so that they may not breathe. And if they have
glass  lids well sealed with wax , it will be all the
better. Put them in a case  and put this in the well ,
or in the cellar , or in a vat or plot of earth  full of
water .


Because wherever the hand touches  them they will rot,
and it is even best not to breathe on them. You can also put vine
leaves  with them.

 121v
For casting in silver 
You need to arrange your animals as said, and compose the same sand
two parts of  out of 4 parts  of plaster , of
two parts  reheated brick , & one part alum de plume  reheated, and mix it well. Then, having been
prepared thus, and you wishing to mold it, take the three parts 
of an earthenware bowl , from which the peasants eat their soup,
of the aforementioned sand, & add to it pure alum de plume ,
reheated & pulverized in the mortar , as much as you can grab
with 4 fingers  and the thumb  , or a small
double handful . Then, mix mix well & wet with a little sal
ammoniac  & the rest of the common water + 
& stir it with your pallet , so that it all becomes like a
thick sauce or light mustard . & having rubbed, with the
pinceau , the animal with eau de vye , cast & blow,
and beat the table to shake the mold  & do as with others.

Do not forget to put in it crocum , for it prevents the
molds  from cracking, & is appropriate for all
metals . 

Alloyed silver  is better for casting than the fine one, provided
that it is doulx .

One needs for the alum de plume  to be well pulverized and well
mixed.
Sal ammoniac  is a friend of gold  and of
silver .
Which needs to be placed before the sand in the dish ,
which is put in the water , & not the water  in the
sand 
Latten  is the ennemy ofgold  & the friend of
silver .

Silver  for casting
It is not fine silver  but alloyed, & which does not
become perfectly white on the fire, they put it to whiten after the
fusion to also clean it of the solder. or of the  When you
need to attach some leg  animal against another or to repair,
it is commonly teston silver . And, all alloyed
silver , as long as it is douls , is good.
Before starting to cast in silver , one needs to have earth
of which  which withstands the fire, like the sandy earth
de qu  mixed with cloth waste  which founders 
use to cast their canons, or any good lute  which withstand fire,
in order to surround your molds  & fortify them, for one
needs for them to be red. One needs to also tie them with
iron  wire .
That before casting sil  reheating the molds , you
have the mixture one needs to make the silver  run.
If the goldsmiths  knew knew the substance to make
silver  run in their works, they would buy a lot. Some buy it five
sols for a denier.

I have used silver  from the capital.

Before binding  luting & strengthening your molds 
for gold  & silver  with the said earth , one
needs for the cast to be made & the vents, & the molds 
to have been reheated of  very red, to burn the animals,
flowers and plants that are inside, & to clean them well of the
ashes. Once well clean & prepared, lute them & bind them with
iron  wire , & reheat them again until they will be
well red.

 122r
Arranging various animals
When you discover some lizards , writhing while biting each
other & , which is the most difficult thing to mold,
because of the number of feet & because of the tip of their tails
which are very fine, Il  take heed that should trou 
some part be uncovered, that remains as if suspended in mid air, to
steady it, in order that the second cast, which you will do on top for
the second half, will not vary. And to steady it over the void, take a
little wax , & rub it & lay it on a table , shaped
like big needle, then cut that which you will need, & with the tip
of a hot iron  wire  join it where it will be necessary.
Steady also frame   on the mold all that will have
detached from it (when you uncover the half of the stomach) with some
wax , taken lightly with the point of a pen-knife , &
joined & melted with the iron wire . And when you will make
your cast, one ought only to bring the wax to there & the edge of
the wax  joined to the animal, & which, while melting, will
continue the casting up to the animal, without spoiling anything, which
is a secret.
 One can arrange snakes bound together in embraces of love, but that
is only when they are small.

Flower in the mouth of the snake 
If you want to put in the mouth of the snake  some flower
q  or some branch of a plant which contains the antidote
against its bite, take a little branch, as best arranged as you can
find, & pose its stem into its mouth. Then put two little pieces
of wax   around the stem of the plant. And with the end of a
iron  wire, that is hot, melt the wax a little, & with the
other hand, close the jaws of the animal. And then you can cut the head
to make it burn with the flower. If the plant s  is strong
enough, it will hold up by itself, and should it be weak like
wormwood  leaf, which droops, the dampness of the sand will lift
it up, & make it swim & hold up without putting anything there,
although you could pass underneath it some thread , going through
with a needle .
     
 122v
Cleaning the bowl  and the spoon  with which one
wets the sand
Be careful to clean, as soon as & quickly after you have cast,
your bowl  & your pallet  or spoon  with
which you wet your sand, because qu’il  if it dries in them,
it crumbles & falls into the fresh sand & makes a hole or a
fault in the work. When also the mold  is reheated, these little
pieces crust up & flake off & prevent neat casting. 

Molding hollow
Wax  on its own cools too quickly & does not run well
everywhere, & tallow  keeps well its heat & runs
everywhere, but on its own it is not good. But when wax  &
tallow  are mixed, the work is only better. Crawfish  &
other small animals can easily be molded hollow for the body, but as for
the legs, it will be troublesome.


The first part of the mold , that is the first cast on the slab
of clay , cracks more readily in the fire than the second.

Molding medals and flat things
You are not bound to making the gate for legs thus

 

, but rather in this way

 

, which embraces the medal well. For the other way with legs is only
done to accommodate more delicate works and the other, which is wide and
in one piece, works better for flat medals. But take heed that all gates
be very thin close to the medal & almost not as thick as the medal,
if it is not very thin like paper. And then, from the medal towards the
gate, thicken it as it goes, for it comes better thus. If the gate is
thick, at the entry to the medal, the work will never come out well.
Make that, desp  from the middle of the gate to the top it is
moderately thick, & from the same middle to the bottom very thin. Do
not forget to makes grooves at au hau  the top of the gate to
prevent that the metal  runs furiously.

 123r
 Way di far correr otnegra  
Take white arsenic , two ounces , 2
℥  Orpiment  or yellow arsenic , two ounces , 2
℥  Aes ustum  , two ounces , 2
℥  Fine copper filings  moderately ground, 2
℥  Antimony , 2 ℥  Rock salt , 2 ℥  

Raw Tartar , 2 ℥  Sandever , 2 ℥  Saltpeter , half that it to say 1 ℥  

Coarse common salt  melted, half, 1 ℥  Sublimate , half, 1 ℥  Borax , half, 1 ℥  Sal ammoniac , as much as borax , that is to say 1
℥  
Take these substances, of the best kind you can find. Weigh them as
said above, and pestle them separately, keeping your face covered, over
the nose & the mouth, from the eyes down, to avoid the exhalations
of arsenic , sublimate , and orpiment . Mix them well
all together, then put them in a good crucible that is so large that the
substances can have space of the fourth or fifth part. Cover the
crucible with a good tile, adapted in a circle precisely on its opening.
And having bound it from top to bottom and on the sides with iron wire
quite strongly, lute it with manure  or founder’s
earth ,that artillery founders  use. And in this, be
careful & diligent, & do not forget to mix in crushed
glass  throughout the lute to fortify your crucible, in a way that it
takes no air, for the substance would be worth little, because the
4 five  last ingredients would be exhaled. 

Note that you need to lute well your crucible , so that the
substances do not take air, for they would be exhaled.


Lute well your crucible , in order that it does not break. For
if it breaks, the substances evaporate & the fumes in it are
dangerous. If within 12 hours it is not melted and mixed, it will not be
well made. 
Goldsmiths  who know about this substance sell a
denier   of it for 5 sols   to other
goldsmiths , & especially to those who make dishware in
quantity, for at the end of their works, they can solder over the first
solder by means of this mixture. In general, all those who want to mold
& cast something delicate. This mixture should not be divulged, in
order that it is not abused.

The grain is like broken steel 
 
 123v
 Your lute once dry, put, in the early morning, your crucible in a
four à vent , & at the beginning, give slow fire, as much
for reheating your crucible than for gently letting the fury of the
saltpeter  pass. Then, invigorate little by little & with
judgment the fire. And y  leave in the fire’s full vigor, your
substances, for 12 hours, or a natural day. Make each time a good
quantity of this substance, to not repeat it often, because the fumes,
which are dangerous, could hurt you. And before working at it, take in
the morning good buttered toast, and hold the said butter , or
zedoary , or gold  coins, in your mouth, and ada 
cover your face with a cloth from the eyes down. From this mass, the
crust will serve you make run  to clear the great works
of  the silver  from the metallic mass like
snakes  & similar things  when it starts to melt.
But  And then, the grain that will be at the bottom of the
crucible  should be put aside for principally delicate
flowers and herbs  putting a little in the melted silver 
when you want to cast it, However is it necessary to always put a
little of this grain in the silver  when you want to
cast  it is well melted and when you are ready to cast .
Thusly, do as you make fine tin  on copper , & for
looking-glass tin  on lead  and on tin . And, just as
looking-glass tin  sours lead  and tin  too much, if
you put it in too great a quantity, likewise, the grain composed of the
above-mentioned substances would sour your silver if l  you
were to put in too much, and obscure it. This above-mentioned
composition will suffice you for a long time, when it has been for a
whole day on a gentle  gentle fire at the beginning &
invigorated degree by degree until the end. Then, having given it one
load of charcoal, let it consume it by itself, & let your
crucible  cool. Next, break it. You will find two hard slabs
& tourtelles  in the crucible . The upper one is
like petrified Once , composed of salts  sublimated
& mixed together. The lower one is metallic, composed of fillings,
aes ustum  & antimony , having the grain very small.
Pulverize the upper tourtelle , made from salts , &
put some to clear & clean the silver , and the metallic grain
can be used to put in the melted metal.
Charcoal  fire

Or, after you have had your drugs  pestled by a peasant. And
having put them in your crucible, & the latter luted & dry as
said & placed into the furnace, have the fire managed by a shop boy,
familiar with charcoal . 

One sells well to silversmiths this metallic mass to soften their
solder, because when melting, latten  exhales. And with a little
of this substance, they solder over the other solder.

 124r
Animals with hair and fragile and very thin flowers
Animals with hair are awkward to mold because the hairs raise up
& come out looking mixed up & to  clumped together.
Starting, one ought to keep it flat with something dessicative &
that makes it firmer. And in this, the most singular thing is wheat
oil , with which you will smear it. Once cast, you will be able to
repair it. The bodies of butterflies  and plants , that have
the stem  & the leaves  that are wooly with some hair,
capricious & downy, need also to be smeared with the same
oil , to keep these hairs laid down; likewise flowers  that
have leaves  very delicate & thin, for dry wheat oil 
makes them rigid and firm. And if someone brags about molding what is
presented to them, give them to mold the downy head of the plant called
dandelion  or a pappus , which comes from the seeds of
burdock  & flies away at the slightest sigh of wind.

Noyaulx  for molding hollow
Animals of gold  & silver  can readily be molded
hollow, to avoid weightiness, and costs as well, if they are not very
small. But to make the core & the noyau , one needs the mold
to be freshly molded & not dry.

Spider ’s web
It comes undone in water  & thusly, cannot be molded in a
noyau , but one casts the spider  and then one draws the
drawn threads between the grass that they make in the fields on some
carton   with a point. One makes around an edge of
paper , glued to the carton   & one casts with
tin , very little alloyed with lead .

Fine gold 
There is a species of gold  which, even though it is very fine
& unalloyed & has been passed through aquafortis  &
antimony , is however so brittle that it hardly withstands the
hammer. And the composition of verdet  described above to make
gold  run, makes it as doux  as lead .

 124v
Rouge clair   @ enamel  
Fine gold  is opposed to it, for    on it it
remains yellowish. But alloyed gold  is more appropriate for it,
such as that of escu  & pistolet . If Gold f is not put back on the fire  with its
own pale color renders the enamel  a dead colour.
Ma   And for this occasion, once cut, one puts it back
on the fire to give it a reddish color, to make the enamels 
beautiful. Otherwise, they are matte. 
There is rouge clair  which, once it is used with
arene  , loses its beauty.
Some can be found that have grains of gold  inside, and it is
also the opinion of good goldsmiths  that the good one is made
with gold .

Casting with gold 
Molds are reheated better & more surely in a closed fire, such
as pot   in a reverberatory furnace . So that
when goldsmiths want to cast some important piece d’or 
e  that cost a lot to rough out in wax, they put the molds 
in a pot  & cover them, & fill the pot with earth,
sustaining the fire that holds them together & tight. Then, they
reheat the mold , earth  & pot  together, and
when everything is well red, they cast the gold . Fine gold 
does not run well, but alloyed gold does well .
Gold  & silver  do not sour, having been, once
entirely red and hot, dipped in water .
Gold  is a quarter heavier than lead .


When gold  reaches its perfect heat, it is green like an
emerald .


Take care that where you want to cast the gold , there has been no
fall of lead , tin , or lime  thereof in the
forge .

Way to make the gate for small female lizards 
Because you always have to make the gate by the tail, and that it is
so delicate and thin that the casting will find it hard  metal
would run with difficulty, especially when it is curled, roll wax 
in little threads of this size

 

and apply some with the hot iron wire , as said, one at the end of
the tail & the other, that are applied in the same way, from one
edge side  of the tail to the other, as you see
depicted. But take heed to make sure that the end of the hot iron
wire  hardly touches the animal, for the sand of the second gate
will not touch this part. But make sure that the end of the wax 
arranges itself only at the edge of the empty part of the first mold.
Make also conduits of wax  around the legs &, around the
contours of the body, which are a little long & they will serve as
abreuvoirs  for the molded thing. 
Follow here above   


When the tail, which is delicate and closer to the gate, comes out well,
the rest will also come out well.


The most important is that the ears of the snake  come out
well-molded.


Your gate must be very thin at the entrance of the animal & of the
thickness of a knife.
  
 125r
 & from these conduits & abrevouers , you can also
put there small threads of wax , which are joined to the body, in
order that the metal  goes more easily from one part to another
& runs quickly everywhere. And from these conduits, you lead your
gates & your vents without spoiling anything.
  
With small rolls, you make your gates and vents without danger of
crusting & removing anything from the mold, because the wax, being
taken away, leaves the empty space all made. Make your vents coming from
the head, which is in the bottom, towards the cast. Make also your gate
so that it is too  but little thick, and makes within its
course two or three notches, for this corrupts fury of themetal 
and makes it flow with ease, without bubbling nor making too much smoke,
which hinders its run. You can divide it also in two or three branches
thus

 

when it approaches the molded thing, and make always holes in the
gate,
+ 
Plaster 
When you v  mold something to cast wax  in it, you
mold in plaster alone, reheated after having been pulverized. For, once
reheated in stone , the outside is cooked, and the inside stays
almost raw. Transparent grey plaster  is not strong, but a good
one, is one, that, once wet, is white & sets very quickly.
Nevertheless I have found the grey plaster   to be quite
firm and hard after it has set, but it takes longer to work with
it . Know the nature of each. You will never mold very neatly if you
do not soak until it is quite clear and liquid, your plaster  or
the core's sand . Soak it straight away after it has been
reheated.

However, if you mold with plaster  that has been reheated once as
said, coat the first mold well with oil . And when the second cast
has set and you have prepared it, soak it in water  for a long
time. And if it does not release, soak it in hot water , because
cold water  hardens it.
Something  to know
And hot water  softens it plaster   more than cold
water which  does not penetrate it plaster   as
it does mixed plaster  because it
plaster   is stronger and mixed plaster  is spongier.
Medal s are cast from this powder ed, reheated
plaster , and the medal s  will be waterproof as
though they were varnish ed. In Germany, people hang these
medal s on houses. See to it that the water  is very hot,
and if the water  is boiling, it will not endanger it . All
molds made  of plaster only or molds made of mixed plaster  are stripped from it.

Scimitars
Workers  from Damascus or from Hungary, neighbors to the
Turks, separate iron  from the mine s with steel . And
they cast the blades of the scimitar in sand  with this first
steel that was  first casted from its mine .
Afterwards, they the blades  cut other iron  without without
great difficulty because all melted iron  is harder than soft
iron  beaten into ...  and bars. Thus is the steel  of
scimitars, but it is quite brittle. When someone takes the haft of a
scimitar off, that person recognizes it  well by the tip in the
haft which is cast in sand .

Hearing from afar
Make a small hole into the ground, put your ear against it during
the night or during an equally quiet time, and you will easily hear the
muffled sound.

Secret

 125v
Vipers and snakes


I molded a viper, which is much cleaner to cast than any other snake,
because it has beautiful & very visible scales on the entire body
& principally on the head and under the throat. It has a flat heat,
a ruddy snout tending to deep carnation, & thick and short like
horned aspic or like the top of a pig's snout, big jowls, eyes very
close to the snout, and the mouth wide open where it has double canine
teeth on each side coming out of a reed of flesh that covers them and
turns back. It also has a reed of flesh in the throat like a dog's penis
from which comes its stinger. Other snakes have a double row of
teeth.


If you want to mold snakes with open mouth, you must cut off the head
& leave it inside, because it will not be able to be stripped.

Molding turtles


Casting snakes & herbs and flowers is a strange matter, since the
cavities that are between the two shells require several pieces. To cast
in sugar  without making a casting, they are molded from plaster,
as works for anything you like.

Plaster  to cast with wax 


When you want to cast in wax  in a plaster  mold, you must
know this secret, that there is need that your mold be in hot
water . The animal will never come out as clean as in metal, because
wax  grips. But to rough out an animal as close to natural as
possible in order to fix it afterwards, you have to remove all the
scales, because the wax  will permeate them & will not be able
to be stripped off. In molding the animal, take off the scales for
wax , but on the contrary when not molding with wax  rub
them against their grain so that they raise up, because then these
animals sc. those not molded in wax and prepared in this way  will
show better. Do not wait to strip off your wax until it is cooled down
at all. But while it is a bit hot, after you have molded the first
casting of the animal, uncover it halfway so that it be stripped in so
doing. And having as much in one mold as in the other, make very many
large castings holding on to the animal in order to fortify them
...  stripping, & afterwards you'll cut it.
+ Alabaster ...  which is plaster 
in any case, is very hard, but it shrinks quite a bit. It is good for
making medals. But it must be very finely strained.

 126r
Molding fruits and animals in sugar
Sugar  is fatty, and, with it, round things and large muscles
are cast well but fine and delicate things are cast with 
difficulty. However, try well-purified sugar . The plaster 
mold must be soaked in water  for a full night or a full day
before casting sugar  so that it the mold  is saturated with
water  and does not soak up the syrup the sugar 
mixture . The plaster  mold must also be stripped very well
from it the sugar , because sugar  is aigre and brittle.
Thus, do not cast anything with sugar  which is not stripped
easily from it, and which can not be neatly molded in two parts to open
as will be needed. If you want to mold a grape, you must get it when it
is very fresh; because if it is withered, it the cast  will look
the same. See to it, thus, that you make your molds in the natural
season for each thing fruit . Grapes that one wants to cast in
sugar  are man-made, either with wax  or earth  or
with grapes molded with melted wax , on some dish plaste &
chose pleine  in a way so that they are pressed closely together and
easily stripped from it. And only a half of the grapes  should be
molded. Or, if you have some of those grapes called chauches or
sauvignons which have well-pressed grapes, set half of the grapes in the
dish of clay , and cast on the other half, and if any grape is not
stripped from it, pluck it out. Note that a grape whose grapes are set
apart and separated cannot mold well in either sugar  or
metal  because the ends of the cluster are so fine. Similarly, if
the grape is kept, that it cannot hold the bunched grapes. Therefore, a
hollow should be cast, which you will not be capable of if the grape is
not close together and without having them spread apart.


to cast and brittle, and it  breaks when dry
+  In order to mold pears and apples in sugar , do
not cast. Rather, fill half of the mold, and then join the two
halves , and keep turning it  until the sugar  is
solidified and cold. Do not mix anything in the mold except the reheated
plaster , as you know.


The mold needs to have been soaked in cold water  for one full day
and night and the mold  must be damp when you cast in
sugar .


The sign that the syrup  or the melted sugar  has boiled
enough in the water  for casting fruits is when it makes threads
when shaking it. And if it passes this point, it will not be good
because it will make it  damp. If the sugar  corrodes
itself, throw a bit of amidin  in the mold or rub it with an
almond .

 126v
Crocum ferri 
It is made more quickly from iron rust  than filings ,
because if you have good vinegar , it will bubble on contact with
rust  as if it were boiling, as if it were on fire, if you use
filings it will not bubble up unless it is placed on the fire or warm
ashes. However when you have put your filings  through
vinegar , and it has evaporated, and heated up and made it very
warm, should you do this all for a second time, the vinegar  will
be a lot stronger and your crocum  will be much more subtle and
red. Those who use it to cast in gold  buy it for forty or fifty
sols per ounce.
It does not harden molds, and when you
scrape the mold  you cannot tell that it is harder. But it
does make the mold more thinner, and it absorbs and attracts gold 
better.

Plaster 
You can mold with it as large a piece as you wish. But if you make a
mold upon large works and pieces of wood , it will not release
cleanly unless you lather your wood  with very hot wax .
Because the wood  absorbs and drinks, and because of this, it
drinks up the plaster , which means it does not come out cleanly.
You can assume the same thing will happen for any other large piece of
wax . But the cure for this is to lather the work that you wish to
cast in plaster  with very hot wax . In this way, it will
not absorb, and will release very neatly.
If the plaster  shrinks, it will
always make flaws, look for harder plaster   and rather
than casting it, press your molds well.
If it shrinks, it is not good
plaster. 

Plants that are difficult to burn in the noyau
Any herb that has a hard stem, like wood , is very difficult
to burn in the noyau, such as asparagus, thyme, and other similar
things, because they remain as solid coal  in the small conduits,
and if they are not reduced to ashes, it is not possible to remove them
from the mold. In this case, some reheat them two or three times. Others
in mixing some herbs together in the mold, pass through the herbs and
the earth  circle, which is there to receive the tempered
sand.
This is not due to the fact that those herbs have stems with lines
in them because rosemary burns well. This is due to the nature of
certain herbs.
 
 127r
 some thread, as much to secure the herbs so that they do not rise
when you throw in your clear sand , as to give them some
circulation when they are reheated. Because by doing this the thread
burns away and leaves some empty space around the herbs which acts as
vents, and places for the air to escape, and places for the air to enter
so that they burn more easily; because what keeps them carbonized, is
when they burn in a closed fire with no empty spaces because of the fine
sprigs. Therefore try to enlarge the main stem with a bit melted
wax  and leave it to cool. Then mold it. And when the wax 
melts, it will leave the main stem sitting comfortably and almost
loosely so that it burns better. Or you could apply some petrol
oil , sulphur , turpentine , brick oil , or similar
things, or with aqua fortis  or spirits , or make you
sand  with . Or make your sand  with crocum filings 
of iron lumps  or iron esmeri  which allow for several days
of high fire.
Animal bones are not as difficult to burn and reduce to cinders,
because their flesh being burned, the bones remain loose and the
heaviness of quicksilver  makes them break and be crushed, being
calcinated and burnt.

Asparagus always remains carbonized like little pins. Try to the take
asparagus and thyme when they start to grow, so that the stem is still
tender.

Plaster  mold for wax 
When your plaster  mold is done and dried, be sure that your
mold comes off cleanly because it sometimes happens that the animal,
having been wounded or having lost weight or having withered, has
wrinkles where plaster  can get in the scales. Having not been
rendered well, the animal will attack itself and break and will never be
perfect. Be also advised to make your casts for wax  very big. In
this way, your casts will not be too thick. They are done when the mold
of both sides is done and when the animal

  has been removed from the mold.

 127v
Founder's earth
This is boulvene earth mixed in with dung or hairs which withstands
fire, of which you must always have a large stock hanging around for
dawbing the molds that you use to cast in silver and that need
reheating. Those where you burn flowers or animals do not need dawbing,
unless they have been left to stand once they have been reheated, and
once they have been cleaned of any bones and ash that might have
remained inside. And having removed the clamps, you open the two halves
to see if they have any cracks. Because there is some plaster that does
not harden as much in the fire as another one would. Others create
crusts on the things that remain to be burned inside. And all of these
are imperfections that you must avoid, either by giving the animal a
bath of spirits before pouring your soaked sand, or by putting in more
or less brick sand  or alum, or by reheating the brick to higher
temperature, or by instead of mixing in brick, mixing in broken bits of
crucibles and similar things that resist fire well. Having therefore
reheated your mold to burn what is inside, leave it to cool. And if it
is neat and unbroken put the clamps on again, and dawb with the
aforementioned earth, that is called of the founders , dust it
with a bit of sifted ashes and leave it to strain. But beware not to
dawb your if they are not cold. Those in which you cast silver, where
nothing needs burning inside, only need, when the cast and the vents are
made, to be dawbed and reheated once. Do not dawb the part of the mold
in which you want to cast, but leave it uncovered like the openings of
the vents.
The molds should crack at the first reheating, because then 
they will not crack at the second reheating anymore.
The smallest molds reheat more quickly, therefore take the ones that
have finished reheating first when you cast, because you can put several
in your furnace at the same time  to reheat.
First light the coals in the forge, or in any other place that is
close, and having placed your molds on a layer of good embers, not
burning too much, in order to have a slow fire in the beginning, then
add in little by little coals that are half lit to the forge.

Earth, of the kind used to braise or solder, which is sandy clay earth.
Or else clay mixed with sand after having been dried and sieved, and
then composed, is good to dawb your molds. Because this type of earth
melts rather than cracks. And any earth that melts cannot be lacking in
this.

Use a wire to bind.
 
Dawb very thickly your molds, and if they are small, you can reheat them
immediately in a good fire, even those made out of crocum.

If the earth has hair in it, and does not crack when heated, and does
not separate from the mold, the molds will not crack either and will not
run when cast. Reheat them at your leisure in a closed fire and do not
expose them when warm to the air.

Dawb rather thickly in two or three layers, doing  similarly at
the points of the joints, so that the silver does not run out of the
mold.

Reheat in a reverberatory furnace.

To test if your earth is good, rather than putting some on your mold,
dawb in that place of the wall of the forge that is around the opening
and mouth of the bellows, then turn on the fire and if it tolerates this
without cracking, then it is good.

 128r
Casting with gold  and silver 


To cast silver  and gold  do always put a little ground
stone of borax  on the bottom of the crucible, and put your matter
on it. That way the acid smoke  won't corrupt these two matters,
but it is especially efficient for gold .


If you have several molds to cast, do not fill them all in one cast,
because metal  would get cold. Cast one after another.


When your mold start being red inside, look at the cast, if you do not
see any black spot keep the same heat, and if needed, add a few half
lighted charcoals  with the help of pliers. However, put ground
borax  at the bottom of the crucible, and put silver  on the
top of this matter, then put your crucible into the forge, reheat your
crucible which is between lighted charcoals , until it becomes
red; do not blow before that. When you'll use the bellows, make
continuous longitudinal moves, tug a little bit the bellows, push and
pull, that way the heat will become greater. From time to time remove
your crucible out of the top of the forge with the help of your warm
pliers, because if your crucible is close to the tuyere silver 
would cool down rather than heat up. That why it is better to put the
lighted charcoals  above the tuelle, three fingers far from the
wall of the forge. That way the crucible is heating much better. When
your silver  starts melting, if you find that it is too acid by
noticing that the lumps are cracking and bursting, take the size of a
walnut of arsenic , and twice as much of crude tartar  which
is coarsely ground, that way it will heat better. Pour some of this
mixture on silver  in the crucible, it will get clearer. But if
you have some of that sublimate crust on the metallic matter , and
which looks like grains of steel , #  put some of
this matter in your melted silver .


Some people leave the silver to rest a little out of the heat before
casting.
silver  and gold  which are melted with the above matters
won't become porous.


For gold , you need not as much crocum  as stone
alum .


Small molds can be reheated soon. But you should oven-dry large and
small molds because dampness go out of the mold with the heat. The
intense heat of charcoals  drives the heat from within
outside.


All silver alloy  make chape and all other metals too. 
Silver  should not be peeled off when still  molten.
#  Coarsely powdered.


Lumps of deteriorated silver  vitrify red because of
arsenic  and orpiment .
 
 128v


You will see that it will stir it and heat it intensely and soon will
make it quite liquid and ready to cast, and lighten it as it should.When
it is in that state, very white and polished, shiny like quicksilver, be
ready to cast. To that end, have thin, diluted sand in a pot or other
vessel, which will be helpful to your mixture. Make a hole in your sand,
and with you pincers put your red hot mold in this sand hole. Cover
immediately the opening of your mold so that no ash or dust enters in
it, and then surround it with sand up to the level of the gate and the
vents. This done, peel off you mold and cast you well molten
silver , the size of a pea of this metallic grain, which will
immediately spread your silver  all over, making it boil and cover
everything. Cast as soon as you have spread this matter; that is the
secret to make silver  run, because its crust heats up and
lightens it up. You can cast silver  thinner than the Capital
league norm , as the royal one. 


Don't forget to add first some borras  in your molten
silver , even if silversmiths  do not. However, it is
good to do it and I have seen it done. Then we add matter from the crust
twice, and then some of the metallic thing. Keep it from   that be
laid at the very end of your forge.


Si tu want to blow away the ashes that are around your mold when you
hold it with your pinces, hold it upside down and blow.


When silver  is well melted you can expose and blow it with a
small bellow, but not continuously like you would do for gold , to
get rid of the charcoal  and fill it only with matter that make it
runny.

Whitening of cast silver 


People, even German  people, commonly cast silver  of poor
quality. Because this kind of alloy produces defects and crusts, some
silversmiths  are eager to whiten their works, including the
coarser ones. To do this they mix an equal part of tartar  and
common salt  in their bullitoyre. I saw an excellent German
working that way. In my presence, he casted a lizard with a teston
league alloy, which had produced a dirty crust. To clean it, this German
boiled it in a bullitoyre with tartar  and powdered common
salt  mixed with common water  on the fire of his forge. Then
he scrubbed it because he thought it was not neat enough. From this
crust he burned tartar  on a piece of paper  until it was
black and did not smoke anymore. Then he diluted this tartar  into
the water  form the bullitoyre, and covered all his
lizard  with this. Then he put the lizard  between red
hot charcoals in the forge, and he blew a bit. When the lizard 
became red, he removed it, let it cool, then reheated it with the
bullitoyre mixture, and scrubbed it into clear water.
+ 

Note that the bullitoyre for silver  is not appropriate to use in
a crucible because the tartar  evaporates. But the vessel, being
made of copper , is excellent to whiten silver  and for the
mixture which colors gold .


He made sure that his tartar water  would not boil over, because
its strength would disappear, so when this first boiling happens, remove
it from the fire and put it on again. He held this burned tartar 
mixture put on low quality silver  to be a secret.

 129r
Painting metal  herbs
If you are in a hurry it would be better to mix your color with a
not-too-thick gum or  because oil  takes a
long time  to dry, and it runs if it is transparently layered,
as the herbs require. And if you still want it done  quickly,
mix your color with glair  beaten with fig tree 
rind , and your work will soon be dry. But layer it
transparently.

Wormwood
 The pallid white of this herb is made from green verditer ,
white lead  or ceruse , a bit of massicot ,
scudegrun , and cendré d'azur . Mix and arrange your color
with a branch you have. 

Viper color 


It is the most beautiful snake  to mold, because it has very
beautiful scales, round and transparent. Its natural color is made from
good verdigris  well ground, with good vinegar , if it is
made of lead  or tin . And in the darkest parts, season this
first color with a little sulfur , as you know. And if you need to
lighten and whiten, like under the throat, rub these parts with a rough
cloth. Because of its nature, the male ejects a kind of small lump from
its backside when pressed, like a half arquebus ball, made in its
genitals, and full of highly poisonous prickles.
+  Add a bit of looking-glass tin  in your
tin ; your lizard  will look as if made of
silver .

Molded roses


Roses are molded with difficulty because of their petals, which are very
delicate, weak, and doubled. To avoid this, rub them with wheat
oil  which is very dessicative, and once dried it stiffens and firms
up the leaves to separate them and for them to withstand soaked sand. Do
the same thing with flies , pansies, and other delicate things
like capers.

 129v
Animals oven dried for a long time


Stick your animals on a slab of earth , fix them with sharp
pointed iron wires, as if you wanted to mold them, then dry them into an
oven as hot as when bread  has been taken out. It is the same for
snakes , birds  and other animals. But they have to be
promptly dried.


Note that you have to arrange them and put them into the sand as for
flowers, and promptly dry them in an oven as warm as when bread 
has been taken out. Leave it there one day and one night in order for
them to be very dry, otherwise it would stink. However, be sure that the
oven is not too hot, it should be as warm as the sun in June, otherwise
the animals would cook. Once they are dry, do not soak them; clean them
with a brush or a paintbrush.

Animals casted in copper 
Once casted in copper , try to burnish them as we do with
leaves made from gem, to see if they will get the same color.

Advice about casting
Be careful that your cast is not too thick, and do not forget to
make 2 or 3 holes and notches in the conduit, when your cast is coming
near the molded thing, divide it between 3 or 4 parts like fingers, and
not deep. Thus the metal will run more gently, without preventing vapors
and smoke.


Always make the entry of you cast close to the medal and the notch, when
lumpy, it will lessens the metal's fury.


To cast a spider  on a leaf, and to prevent the sand from
covering the under belly, fix a bit of melted wax  at the end of
its tail, and bottom part of the body, with the help of a warm wire as
you know. Once the leaf has burnt and the wax  has melted, two
small holes remain on the leaf, that will be the cast of the
spider .

Casting a spider on a leaf


Usually big spiders have hairy legs, which are difficult to mold if you
do not lay hairs down flat, or if you don't burn them with the flame of
a candle, or if you stiffen them and lay them flat by oiling  them
with wheat oil . Kill them into vinegar  and urine ,
like snakes , or in spirits . Then arrange your them on a
beautiful vine leaf, or another leaf, then you can make the
undisciplined hair look like tamed hair by rubbing them with mouth glue,
or something similar. Their true color is vinegar  or greenish.
And season with sulphur in random places. Arrange your slab of
clay  and place your vine leaf on it, your dead spider in the
middle. Pierce the middle of the spider 's body with the tip of
an iron  or latten  wire. Then fix diagonally some small
latten  tacks all around the vine leafs in order to secure it.
Then block the end of the legs with a bit of melted wax using a warm
iron  wire, and smooth it out with the tip of a pair of small
pincers. do the same with the other edges of the spider .
Return🜊 
🜊 🜊 

When the wax is cool, scrape away the superfluous parts with the point
of a penknife, that way the end of the legs will stay neat. Then arrange
the disc of earth around the spider, and cast your soaked sand, as you
did for others. In this fashion you will have to burn the vine leaf in
the mold. Otherwise, you will not have to. To cast your spider 
more easily, make sure the animal is dead, avoiding the entanglement of
its legs while agonizing. When you have done your first cast, peel this
side of the leaf, then do the second cast. 

 130r
Drying animals in an oven
One can skin small cats  and remove their eyes and all their
guts. Then place a small stick vertically between the teeth in order to
open their mouths. Then with iron nails  one should attach their
feet to a small board, arrange the required position. Once they are tied
by their feet with small iron rings , one has to hang them upside
down into the sun. By doing so, they will get the right shape and dry,
the belly will tighten and the the tail will remain high up thanks to
the twist that you made. Once they are already a bit dry, one may twist
the head as he wishes and secure the position with any tool. One may
finish to dry the animal by placing it in an oven once the bread has
been taken off. Then place some realistically painted lead  balls
or wax  balls in the eye-sockets. One should paint them with
gummed ink  so that they look like jet. One can add a painted
tongue, or horns, or wings or anything you may imagine, same goes for
rats  or any animal.

Reddening lively crayfish  which will look as if they were
boiled
Rub your crayfish  with good vinegar  diluted with a
little eau-de-vie  and not much, then you can present them as if
they were cooked and yet they will walk.

Molding a single spider 
One has to display it on the jacket of clay  as it is said for
the vine leaf . Then do the first cast. And once it dry, peel the
mold off to the middle of the legs and do the second cast.

Molding a single vine leaf 
Attach it with brass  wire points on the jacket of clay 
and then cast the first mold. Once it is dry peel off the back side and
make the second cast. Then peel away the back side, and make your second
cast. Once it is dry, you may remove the leaf. You must heat your mold
only once, because there is nothing to be burnt inside.
 

which surround the fingers of the paws and which stick in the jacket of
clay .


Also. One cannot mold the hairy legs of big spiders  or any
other hairy animal if they had not been rubbed with wheat oil 
before they are laid flat. This will make the hair  firmer and
will dry very quickly. Hairy things entangle in the sand, and do not
burn very well.

 130v
Molding a crab
It is a secret and a masterpiece to mold a crab  well because
it is necessary to proceed differently than you would  with other
animals, because its shell is quite difficult to ...  and that is
why it is necessary to reheat the mold three or four times. And on top
of all that, it leaves a hard crust that is  gray like ash .
It is not molded from one piece and one cast, like plants. Rather, in
two casts as with serpents which are easily stripped. After it is
opened, nimbly remove this crust with the very fine point of a
pen-knife, not with quicksilver  which would do nothing 
and likewise those small crusts of the second cast which get into the
cavities that the sand  or the molded animal made because it has
curved legs. Here is the subtlety and the secret of stripping it. As you
molded it the crab  from the back side in the way that you did
for  the others animals , remove the stomach and all the curved
legs from it. Make your second cast in the way that you did for 
the other animals , but as it will have set, take care that you
not open the mold unless you have first reheated it well. Otherwise,
because of its curved legs, you would break the whole thing. Herein lies
the subtlety. If, after it has been well reheated and opened, you see
that the crust is not burned enough, reheat it  until it is burned
enough . 

It a crab  can be painted like a crayfish.

For opening the mold, it is not necessary to soak it because, once
reheated, it will open itself by itself.

Stag beetle
Like a crab, it a stag beetle  is also difficult to burn,
therefore do stag beetles  as you did crabs.

For molding thinly
After you have molded the first mold as the core, leave it to dry
well before removing the figure from wax , so that the mold is not
ruined. Afterwards, then make make a small lasagna of paste  as
thick as you like, and, once you have greased the cavity of your first
hollowed mold with butter , apply the paste  to it the
cavity of the first concave mold  and then the upper part of the
second mold. If you grease the mold  with oil , it will be
soaked up into the mold  and it will not be as clean as
butter .

 131r
Plants  which are bad to burn in the mold
Mold them in two or three castings; being annealed, your mold will
open, and it will be easier to extract the charcoal  from inside.


Try this 

Letters and molded paper 
Write with some ink  well thickened with gum or any other
color dye  which has body, and which is not erased if dampened
with brandy. Then put your paper on the sheet of clay, and dampen it
with brandy . Cast both sides of paper .

For adorning beds, mirrors and similar things
Model any drawing in half relief on a flat slate  in order to
set it on round or flat things. Cast with very fine tin , then you
can gild it with gold  leaf, and set it wherever you want. Fill
the bottom of the relief with small rubies , orpiment , or
any colored little grains .

To teach a dog well
You need to keep your dog attached; when it does what you command,
to win its love, give it a piece of cheese  that was held under
the armpit. This cheese  would be a bad drug if the master, or the
apprentice, is red-haired. 

Molded waxes 
Wax representations made from white lead  and cerussite 
are not made to be burned and melted in a mold where you want to cast
silver  and gold ; this would make it brittle. Moreover if
you use such a mold, the wax  would be stripped thanks to the
violence of the fire which makes it boil, and the mixture made of
cerrusite  or any other metal would attack the mold. That's why if
you want to sketch things
+ White wax  is more delicate than the other, and it doesn't leave
any filth when you want to mold it as a core, or to mold hollow.
 
 131v
 to be cast with gold  and silver . Do not add to your
wax all the drugs you are preparing, but only melted sulphur , as
the candle melts, and also candle smoke . Melted sulphur 
falls down to the bottom of your mold, but lets the wax  keeps
some of its quality, melting it but leaving it a little firm. You can
thus melt your wax  representation on fire. If your wax is
composed of cerussite  or something similar, you need to put your
mold into boiling water.

You don't need all this to mold flat representations made of wax ,
because the wax  can be removed completely from the mold, and
won't remain inside it.

When lead  or tin  casts fill with bubbles


If your casted work became porous, it can be repaired with very firm
wax, and you can gild or silver it afterwards. If you cast fine, the
alloy of one ℥ of lead  to one lb of tin is good. But if you cast
with lead ligue     , indeed you
need one lb of lead  to two ℥ of tin, because lead is fat and
sticky, goes over the alloy. I have cast a very small lizard that way.
If you cast something thick, which keep the heat for a long time, it
will make bubble if there is not enough tin . Your mold should not
be cold, but cool enough that you can hold it without burning your hand,
or that you can hold your finger into the cast without burning yourself.
Your tin  or lead  must be like red. Cast your lead first,
then cast tin. When you are going to cast, add a piece of resin 
to your mixture, then a little looking-glass tin . If you add too
much lead  to your tin , the mixture wouldn't be fluid
enough. To know the right proportion , If tin  cries loudly,
it means that there is not too much lead ; if tin  cries
softly, it means that you added too much lead . Be wary

You can solder with the same matter, then rework it and remove away
all the unwanted thick parts  with a burin.
Tin  is a metal that can… , makes bubbles and burn, and more
capricious to work with than gold  and silver .
Lead  must not be only red, it must be quick, and as liquid as
water, which is a sign of its perfect heat. Your mold must be so hot
that you couldn't bear to put your finger into it. Do not open your mold
until is has cooled down. Just as for silver  and gold , it
is a sign of good casting when lead  comes out through the vent
holes.
 
 132r
 not to heat your mold too hot because it makes it brittle, it makes
bubbles and shrinks tin , and would also break the molded thing.
Do not dip you hot mold into water because tin  and lead 
would shrink.

Mold made from two casts
It opens once anealed. To clean it after, fix the clamps again, lute
the mold, particularly the joints. Then let the earth slowly dry. When
it doesn't smoke anymore, let the mold cool down until you can hold it
without burning your skin. Then put your molds into the presses, or into
a pot filled with sand, and cast with tin . If you cast
gold  or silver  your mold needs to be cast twice, and cast
when your mold becomes red-hot.

If your heated mold … , shrinks because of the bad quality of the
plaster , open it after the first heating, tighten it, the lute it
and clamp it again.

How to anneal the molds
Light your charcoals  from the forge, then place them in a
line in a corner of the forge according to the size of your mold, in
order that it be surrounded with 3 or 4 fingers of charcoals ,
particularly at the bottom of the mole, where it is thicker. Then put
your molds on these charcoals  -- and not on a grate as some
people do -- because they would get too strong a heat. Let your furnace
heat up gradually for a while, always adding burning charcoal . As
long as the mold is humid, your charcoal will be dampened at the bottom,
but when it is dry, the charcoals start to blaze. When one side of the
mold is dry, turn over; when both sides are dry and don't smoke anymore,
increase the heat and cover your mold with burning coals. When the mold
starts being red, do not blow on it with small bellows, because the mold
would burst. Similarly, when your mold becomes red-hot, keep it well
covered with burning charcoals and do not uncover it because it would
crack. Prevent the draft from a window from reaching it. Then let it
cool down.

When you want to anneal your molds, luted or not, do mark the belly of
your mold, in order to place that side at the bottom, against the
burning charcoals, because if the intensity of the heat made the mold
crack, it would be better that it do so on the bottom part instead of
the top part.

If your mold is small, do not heat it as long, otherwise it would crack
and be damaged.
 
 132v
 dry by itself. When your mold starts to redden, it will soon be
become completely red-hot. But make sure that its bottom is red-hot too,
without any black spot.

 Common quarry sand 
In a frame, If you cast it hot, sand  will bubble; thus you
have to just dry it.

I have tried to prevent molds blended with sand  from cracking
when annealed, and thus not get any with flaws that crack.

Crocum ferry 
After I processed it with vinegar  and reddened under heat, I
had it ground very finely on the porphyry , until there could be
no ruggedness felt under the nails. Then I soaked it in very good
vinegar  for 2 or 3 days, stirring the mixture several times a
day. Then I boiled it and made it red-hot in a pot, and put the whole
thing into an air furnace. I obtained a mass full of eyes, but that
crumbled finely between the fingers. I mixed half as much as stone
alum  in the sand. I diluted the sand very thinly, and molded a very
small lizard, which molded very cleanly and finely. Crocum ferry 
does not make the mold harder, but makes it firmer. When your mold is
soft and fat under your nail, it means that the crocum  is good,
very fine and well prepared. You can add any quantity of crocum ,
your mold will not be damaged because it is a friend of gold. I think it
would be the same with silver . And in order that molds made with
it do not crack, make it with needle filings.
Sand  is better made with distilled vinegar .

You can add this sand  to the molds you want to use to cast
silver , because it make molds firmer, and when you scratch it,
you will find it a bit rougher than the other molds not made from this
sand . You mold very clean with this sand .

You can use this one for all molds, because it prevents them from
cracking and bursting when heated. This sand  withstands several
casts for molding flat medals. Sand from steel  or needle
filings  is redder and better.

Gilding animals casted with silver 
You can gild them with an amalgam, the lines won't be damaged if
they are made from silver .

 133r
Hard wax  to imprint seals
One makes these seals  out of white wax  which is harder
than the other and one mixes in it some cerussite  or leaded
white  very finely ground such that it is as hard as you like and mix
in a drop of turpentine  to bind it. Afterwards mix it in the
color that you want. It is in wax  that serves
goldsmiths  for modeling.

Casting the feet of small lizards  in gold  and
silver 
Because the feet of these lizards   that are very
small are also  very fine, once you have molded the top and you
have uncover the vents and underneath the feet are covered lightly with
wax , and then cast a second mold. And the wax  that one
removes, it leaves a little cast for these said feet, and again such
that the underneath part  comes out in one piece that you can
repair well, And the scales on top of the toes come out 
well.


Around the big lizard  nails, put on each a small round of
wax  to make the cast like this.
 
Marks made by  the pin  points of iron  wire
which one finds on the head of an animal
With the points or pins  with which you have dressed your
animal  all over, do same with the head, but out of  the head
which is pierced, a certain moisture seeps out around the wound and this
little exudation prevents the sand from covering the point well and
there always remain little pinpricks. But to avoid this, you can plant
in the plaster  of the said blunt pin point and around the upper
part of the point, and over this point, there put a little hard
wax  or a little mastic  or cement . And by the medium
of the hot thread of iron  there you can hold the throat of the
animal which one removes the iron   when you come to uncover
the vents and the throat for doing the second cast.

Clamps and the broken mold
When you have done the first firing and taken off the clamps and you
have opened your mold to clean it by taking off the bubbles with
quicksilver  which one cannot do with closed molds, reclose the
mold and reattach the clamps but not in the same place as the first
time. Reapply lute and dry it but if this is for casting silver 
or gold use  lute with the rest of sand which has been used
because this is the best netting. If your mold is broken in refiring you
can augment it with clamps and lute.
X 

 133v
 Porosity and little holes which are in the mold


It oftens happens when you cast two or three molds one after the other
using the same dish, because the last casting comes from the bottom of
the dish and is thicker, and then often the last cast which comes from
the bottom and which is the thickest of the dish, may easily become
porous. Cast thinner and neater, as long as you blow very strongly on
the soaked sand while casting in order to clear the little air
bubbles.


When the sand is casted thick, it often becomes porous



Thing that cannot be released


You must cut it inside the mold in order to burn it. Cut it with
scissors at once, that way blood  doesn't flow on the mold, and
doesn't make dirty. Because this dirt would be removed with difficulty
when reheated. Then place your mold into a furnace, or something
similar, in order to quickly dry the mold which must be removed before
the forming of crusts or molds.@ 
+ 

When you mold small lizards , and when you want to peel away the
first molded part, start to peel away the heads, you will know its place
thanks to the needle.

Don't peel away the legs before peeling away the entire body, to avoid
that the naked body, moving,doesn't remove the legs from their place,
which would not be easy to put back into place. When you remove the
small needles fixing the legs, block the legs or press the legs with
something, that way while removing the needles the legs won't move;
finally, you can fix the legs again with wax .

Various animals entwined


You can entwine a snake  with a lizard , each one biting
the other, or a snake  eating a frog , or a wall
lizard  or something similar. But since these interlacings cannot be
stripped, cut what's possible, and allow the rest to burn. To make the
mouth of the snake , which must stand high, hold a wall
lizard , which is small and would need to be held in the air,
because the snake 's head is higher, put under the wall
lizard  a mound of earth suitable to support it. And if you place
the mold in a furnace, the animal drying quickly, it will quickly
shrink, then it will burn more easily. These interlacings are also made
to mask wounds or defects on the animal which happen when we catch them.
Do not forget to join with wax , applied carefully with a hot
iron  wire, all the parts of the animal which are one on top of
the other, or those which are not well pressed on the slab of clay, so
that the soaked sand does not remove them. Do that in order to 
 
 134r
 

avoid putting pins that should not be put, only on the top of the head,
the thickest parts of the body, and on the delicate parts like the
middle of the lizard 's feet, the nails of which you will drive
into the clay , thus they won't move. Once your first mold is
casted, peel away the belly of the animal, but do not forget to put some
tenuous little pieces of wax  at the tip of the lizard 's
feet. But if it is from a wall lizard , lightly cover all the
sole of its feet with wax , which will be removed with the second
cast. A cavity is left which will be fill these little fingers with
metal. then rework it. Make sure that wax is fixed well on the parts of
the animal which are one on top of the other, so that the soaked sand
which comes in does not make them move. If that happened your jacket of
clay  would be spoiled and your mold wouldn't get the right
thickness, would have holes, and would be spoiled. To obviate that you
can make a thicker mold. If this occurs you could rework it in this
fashion.

To repair a pierced mold


If the molded animal pulls of in certain places, moves from the place
you had fixed it, or has not completely died, or if you didn't fix it
well with the iron  pins or with the melted wax , or if the
animal hasn't the right thickness on the outside at the relief, or if it
is pierced, instead of removing the animal from the mold, peel away the
weak parts, or the pierced part, and make holes all around these parts,
then dip the back side of the mold, quickly cast onto this place with
the same soaked sand which will go into the holes, the cast will adhere
to the first cast. But you will have to lute this spot afterwards.

Sand made of crocum ferri  


You can use the mixture made of crocum ferri  to cast
silver  or gold , this mixture will make these casts firm,
and prevent these from cracking and making burrs. And I believe that for
flat things, it would withstand severa casts. Which however is not
commonly done for gold  and silver .


Try crocum ferri  for lead  and tin .

 134v


To make gold  fluid 


Put as much verdigris  as sal ammoniac , as much
borax  as saltpeter . But don't add a greater quantity of
borax  and saltpeter  than half the quantity of
verdegris  and sal ammoniac , in fact add as much
borax  and saltpetre  all together as verdigris .
Grind into powder the ingredients on the marble  slab, then grind
again with very good vinegar  until it is very fine, like a ground
color, grind verdigris  with oil , then leave to dry if you
have time, if you haven't so much time dry it with the fire of the
forge, make so that it is very dry.


Grind 

One of the principal things for casting is to cast very hot, especially
large metals



Casting big works with gold 


Not only should one clamp the mold very well, but also strengthen it
with good iron wire links or adequate straps.


Before casting with gold, clean thoroughly your forge with lead 
and tin .

Secret for soldering small works made of gold  and
silver 


If some little pieces of legs cannot be easily removed from gold 
or silver  casting, it is because you didn't cast wax  under
these parts. Beat some soldering gold  very finely, then cut it
into very fine flakes, cut the quantity you need. Take some of this
phlegm or white and thick saliva  which is on the teeth, put some
of this matter to the place you want to solder with the point of a
burin, then place your flakes, then put to the opposite part a mixture
made of a small quantity of soaked fat earth and saliva ,
thanks to the mixture the solder will better adhere. Then pulverize a
bit of borax  on it, and heat up Quince pulp seed water  to
a boil and others too.

 135r
Colors for gold , or sauce


Take as much verdigris  as sal ammoniac , &
saltpetre  the size of a bean. Because if you put in too much, it
would make the whole thing boil so much that it would all pour out.
Saltpeter  is only put in to make it boil, so that you know when
the material has boiled enough. This color put on sour melted
gold  makes it soft instantly.
Softening gold  
Casting


It must be lengthened out with respect to the thing you have molded. And
at a minimum for large molds it must be four or five fingers in length.
You can make it large enough for half the mold & then divide it in
three points of such a sort, and so the molded things will each 
be small. But your points must be small. And in the middle of the
casting & of its points, make some holes to impede the fury of the
metal  & make it run more softly. It is also necessary to fix
the bent parts of the animal with little notched lines, and similarly
the end of the tail and other fine parts so that the metal  goes
throughout & flows from one part to the other.


Do not forget to make a wax cast of the paws of   & things as
subtle as this.


When you have molded an animal in the first part of the mold, do not let
this part dry out before you have removed the said animal, because when
the mold dries out it will shrink and it will also make the animal
shrink. Keep it therefore in a damp & humid place until you have
done it.
 
Vine leaf  and small frog 


To mold, take vine leaves  as they are blooming, just as with all
herbs  & flowers , or a young vine  regrowing
after it has been cut or when the leaves come off in autumn, because new
leaves  are knottier & have more evident veins. By contrast,
old leaves  are smooth all the way through & full of holes in
many places. Place therefore your leaf , its back behind it
against the clay plaster , and fasten it with little pins. Leave
it nevertheless with its natural curling. And make a notch in the clay
to hide the stem for the first cast. And when it's done and dry, take
out the stem of the leaf  and clean it well with your jacket and
press it with a little scoop of clay. Afterwards, make many castings
around the leaf  with wax , as you know well, & make a
slender casting & with many lines & knots.


Vine leaf  is painted with a green made of scudegrun  &
verd de terre .


You can cast a spider or frog & whatever you like on the leaf.

 135v
Casting gold 
Take a crusol that can contain a certain amount, as you wish to
place roughly crushed borax  into it. Place the
borax   at the bottom and then the gold  on top of it.
Arrange the coal  in the forge in such a way that the wind of the
bellow will blow above the crusol and no on its side as it would cool it
down and would not heat it enough. Also, make sure it is three good
fingers   away from the wall of the forge so that it is
quite surrounded by coal . Allow the crusol to anneal until it is
quite red. Then, have your boy strongly blow the bellow with long
pushes, as in this manner it heats it better. Meanwhile, once the
gold  will be melted, blow a small bellow above it. Because
otherwise  the gold  would turn sour and would acquire some
kind of coat. As long as there will be some swirling smoke as you blow
this way, it means that it is not soft enough for the cast. Therefore,
uncover the melting pot and without displacing it and without stopping
the bellow, tilt it towards you so you may well see what is inside.
Throw a ferue of borax  in it and blow wind towards it with the
small bellow in a jerky fashion. Should there be coal  inside,
blow a bit stronger to make them come out. And if the gold  still
smokes and swirls, add borax  again and blow above it. Beware that
it is still sour and not soft enough, it will show a coat when you blow
it as if it had cooled down. By contrast, if it does not show this sign,
it is soft enough. Then, blow strongly so that it the gold  
is quite heated and once you think it is hot enough, throw colour on top
of it in the crusol and the colour should be composed as following:
verdigris , saltpeter , sal ammoniac , and a bit of
borax . And continue blowing with the small bellows, and the
gold  will turn shiny like

If you cast in gold  some piece of important dimensions ,
lute your mold with the same sand  or put crocum  on
it.

If you wish to cast some large work, or of important dimensions ,
create at the bottom or at an extremity of the forge a vented furnace
where you may hold your mold in the sand  so red.

One may cast two or three pounds of gold .
 
 136r
 FROM PREVIOUS PAGE: And continue blowing with the small bellows,
and the gold  will turn shiny like  a mirror. And once you will
want to start  casting, put a bit more colour in and let it rest a
little, still blowing wind with both the small and the large bellows.
Finally, place your mold quite red between the small molds or in a
crusol full of sand  quite hot and start  casting. And once
it will have stuck, you may, if you wish, throw it into water  as
gold  does not get damaged like tin  which breaks.
To melt gold  bullion, there is no need to blow above the
crusol  with the small bellow.
For large works, the crusol made of sand  has to be placed in
a wind oven so that it is all red at the end of the furnace.
Gold , when exposed to wind or when forged becomes black. But
a bit of aqua forte  removes the black  instantly.
If you have to forge a work made of gold  on brass , as
is done on small statues, put a lead  sheet between the
gold  and the brass , and rather than anneal it and put it
back in the fire, dip it in the aqua forte  and it will be
soft.
It is enough for the cast to be of the same thickness as the medal,
that it from the middle of the cast, up to the medal. But if the medal
is very thick, one should not thicken the cast as a result, because a
thick cast never comes out well. It may be done large to embrace the
medal as much as possible.

Enamelling thin works
Goldsmiths  polish the gold  leaf using a burin and
then they apply the enamel  onto it.

 136v
latten  casting


Take latten  from skillet pans, used to make baby's cereal, which
is doulx and apt for the cast. Some people say that counter from
Germany  contain a lot of calamine . However, when they
are tempered, calamine  evaporates, calamine  mixed with
melted latten  always evaporates, because latten  becomes
red again, thanks to the reiteration of melting. However, fresh
calamine  and only fresh calamine , which is blended with
remelted latten , makes latten  run, and allow a clean cast.
Because calamine  which is added to remelted latten  is
half-damaged compared with its natural state. This half-damaged
calamine  make latten  porous and agitated because it has a
tendency to evaporate. Thus add only very fresh calamine  to
melted latten . Make sure to cast your mold very hot, you mold
must become red-hot, like molds to cast gold , silver ,
copper  and metal. If you pour fresh calamine , avoid its
smoke which is pernicious. To cast a medal, I took thirty counters from
Germany  and xii clous de rosette  made of doulx
latton , like for claires medals which are made of soft
latten . This matter contains a lot of calamine like all kind of
yellow latten , and make a lot of smoke which prevent
latten  from running, and make it porous, that is why it is
necessary to make many vents and to cast very hot, latten  must be
as white as water , or as melted silver  or as a polished
mirror of steel . The second fusion will come out much better
because evaporated calamine  does not make as much smoke. If you
use a molding frame that does not break and holds its own, the second
casting  will come more neatly out of the mold, because the frame
is impregnated with the smoke of calamine . If you add sal
ammoniac  to your latten , this latten  will be clear and
shiny, but will be even more shiny with huile tingente . Do not
use another sand than the above mentioned to mold a noyau, and the mold
must become red-hot, like a mold to cast gold . Make a lot of
vents. If you cast yellow latten with the prepared tutty you will not
get any smoke.


This metal is capricious to cast because of the smoke of the
calamine . Do not leave it out of the fire, as some do with
silver . Because when air or wind touch it, the mold gets cold at
once. When you cast it, this metal always leaves burrs, like when
casting glass . Foundry workers  do not usually use this
very yellow latten  as much because of the calamine  which
is heated. They cast red copper  and turn it yellow with fresh
calamine , or with some prepared tutty. Before casting, clean it
with charcoal  with a quere made of copper  or iron .
Then cover it with a cloth soaked in lard  blended with
saltpeter , or sal ammoniac , in order to protect it from
wind, which would cool it down.

 137r
Casting red copper 
Pure cauldron red copper , or copper  of any other small
works, is good to cast. To make it runny, add some sal ammoniac 
to it, and when you are about to cast, add a little bit of fine
tin . One must cast the copper  very hot into the mold, so that
it is burning and very red, like gold , silver ,
latten , and metal . You will know that it is hot enough
when it is clear and shining like a newly polished steel mirror ,
or like melted silver . Protect it from wind so that it doesn't
cool down too soon. Cover your cast with tow in order to prevent it from
cooling down. Red copper  is cleaner than latten , which
smokes a lot, which prevents the metal from running. I have moulded it
as a noyau very neatly, and as thin as a piece of paper . It must
be very hot, white and shining like melted silver , or a mirror. I
have moulded it as a noyau with the same sand  mentioned
above.


It takes more time to melt copper  and latten  than any
other metals, even red copper . It will run and will comes out
well if you cast it very hot, and as thin as water .


Remove your mold from the fire, and set it into embers, which should
fill a pot or vessel.

Huile tingente  to make metal runny
Take some mercury , some real sublimate of Venice , and
not sublimate of arsenic , aes ustum  a poix, sal
ammoniac , a poix. Ground everything separately, then blend them
together in a glass  bottle, and put it on warm ashes. You will
see that everything melts like wax , and will have bright colors.
Leave to set, add a small quantity of this mixture on every metal, it
will run marvelously.
Foundry workers  who make large casts to mold statues, clean
the dirt from these molds with calamine , and a lot of sal
ammoniac  in order to make moulds clear and neat. When they want to
cast they add a lot of tin . Dampness and cold could spoil their
works, that is the reason why even a small source of water  in the
hole can damage the whole thing.

Clamps
To make clamps use flat tongs made from wire, which is reheated and
bent, and hammered on anvil. Since those clamps are thinner, they burn
more easily, being used in reheated molds. So use new clamps.
 
 137v
Wetting sand  to mold flat medals
Flat medals, made of wax  or metal , must be oiled very
lightly and then touched with a brush of spirits . So that the
already moistened mold takes well the oiled thing without rejecting it,
one warms the water well in order to wet the sand , because with
cold water it would be rejected. It is necessary to oil  medals,
because they do not expand and in this way would break the mold.
Animals, which expand, do not need oiling. The hot water much be of such
a heat that you cannot keep your figure in it without it becoming too
warm. Wet the thickest sand  for flat and solid medals rather than
for  lizards and finer things. Once your sand has set, clean and
scrape your mold on one side and the other, and on the bottom edge of
the thrown side of the medal, make a notch so that it is easier to take
out. Lower the mold, scraping what surrounds the medal, so that on all
sides you can take it out easily without it damaging the mold. Then make
some gashes around the first mold used to throw so that the second time
that you throw in it, it will be identical to the first one, and in the
same way, make a notch at the bottom of the mold, where the held of the
item cast lies. Also make some gashes  in the sides of the cast.
This done, wet the back of the first mold in oiled water , and
after the second casting moisten it with warm water  if you have
molded your medal in a noyau mold. Having done the first cast, and this
one having set, cut around the edge of the medal with the point of a
knife so that it comes out of the throw and is not buried in it. Then
having made the second cast, and having opened your mold, take away the
medal in one go, with two knife points, one on the side of the cast
object and one on the side of the head, which is at the opposite
end.

Take care not to oil your medal too much because if the seeps out, it
prevents the sand  from serving its purpose and coming together
and renders it wavy and lumpy. You must only touch the middle of the
medal with the tip of your oil brush and then smear the oil 
everywhere.


Make especially sure that the throw is as wide as you can on the medal
and holds it together well. The gate of your cast must always be big and
always narrowing as you go towards the medal. Also do not forget to
notch the gate of your cast.
 
 138r
 If you want to cast gold , silver , copper  or
brass , it is necessary that they be perfectly red, and fired on
the inside when you cast, and perfectly reheated twice, if there is
something inside to be burnt and cleaned.
The molds of animals that you burn must be reheated in such a manner
that the animal burns up. But if it has big bones, it is frustrating to
take out and ☿   often breaks delicate things
because of its heaviness. One does not put ☿  in
molds that can open. It is often molds for flowers that do not open
because they are cast in one go.
When you want to reheat your molds, fix cramp-irons on the joints,
so that when they reheat they will not bend, contract or break. This is
done once the cast is made.
The scrapings of the mold can also be used instead of bricks 
after being reheated, and also the leftover bits of the mold that have
already been used. You can also pat it over important things, like works
in gold  or silver . You can also reheat it and blend it
with water diluted with sal ammoniac , like spar  from
Germany, and is excellent sand  for box molds for all metals.
The molds with things that need to be burnt out inside them, those
ones will not open until the thing that is inside is burnt, like the
molds for crayfish, crab, great-horned beetles. Do not open the molds in
which you will burn something, not before the thing is burnt, it could
be crayfishes, crabs, stag beetles, pictures, and pieces of wax and
black sulphur , which do not come out of the mold
easily .
You must not mold on brick  or wood  because they absorb
and attract water too early, and do not allow the sand to set. The best
place for the sand  is on a fresh layers of clay . And yet,
I have experienced that grey earth  dries out the mold too
quickly. Yellow earth   is better.

For medals, and flat things, the sand  must be quite thick and
moistened so that it sets quickly. And when the sand  is thusly
thick, you can shake and move the table where you mold lies, so that
the movement  makes the sand  go everywhere. But when the
sand  is clear, as for flowers and herbs, you cannot shake it, nor
can you do it when there is something attached to wax  or other
things which are prone to come off, such as the legs of crayfish or
other similar things. And if by chance your sand  is too thick,
you must quickly add some water. And having put the sand  in the
water, examine it until it is thick on the bottom and clear on top. The
clearest is thrown in immediately and then bubbles and the thickest is
thrown in at the end so that it strengthens the mold.

 138v
Talcum  mixed with the molds
I used the one from which I had extracted the oil . I crushed
it very finely even more into a steel  mortar with a pestle
which was  rough like a file. I crushed it very finely into a
cottony, downy powder. I mixed it with the sand  and soaked both
matters together, and I casted it en noyau. It molded very clean and
there is no doubt that it will withstand fire.

Gold  casted very thinly
When goldsmiths have to solder something quickly but don't have
enough time to forge it, they melt gold  and then they pour it on
a cloth or on anything else that withstands fire. Then they flatten it
swiftly with a hammer or another similar tool, and it the gold  is
very tenuous and it even retains the impression of the cloth.
Unalloyed pure gold  can be cast into a medal but not into
herbs and lizards or other very delicate things if it is not
alloyed.
A pansy  which is oiled  with wheat oil  can be
cast with alloyed gold .
And other fruit leaves , but with branches  that are not
large and especially the leaves, once cast, can be soldered.

Imitation diamonds set into the work 
Spread a fine layer of imprinting black wax on the inside of the
frame then coat it inside with wheat oil , then dust it with
lamp smoke  because this color should not be lustrous for fake
stones. Having done this, set your stone with a piece of wax then, with
a steel point, or a small finishing hammer, join the edge of the frame
with the stone, so that light cannot get in but be careful not to hit
the stone, which would break.

 139r
Casting with lead  and tin 
When you melt this often, it becomes sour and fragile because it
has to be cast very hot and it makes it half-calicanated. Use new
stuff. 
The way I have done it for lizards and serpents is with two ℥ of
pure tin  for one lb. of unrefined lead  that is impure. The
mold is made out of the aforementioned sand , common for all
metals, when it is reheated, leave it to cool until you can put your
finger in it without causing a breach in the gate of the cast. As for
the lead , it is melted in a crucible with a bellows' fire until
both the crucible and the lead  are red. When it gets to that
state, cleanse it anew with charcoal  or with a specially made
scraper or with the pufts of the little bellows. This done, leave it to
rest in it red state and you can even reheat it, then if you want, throw
in a bit of resin  to burn away the filth. However, some think it
best not to put any in because it leaves filth. But when they are ready
to cast, they cannot forget to also thrown in a bean-size quantity of
bismuth  for each pound of lead . And it must be as red as
the melted metal when it enters the mold. If the mold is large, it is
much better to put in in a press so that they join well and so that the
lead  does not come out of the mold. However, should this happen,
and that for the first, second or third time your mold does not fill up,
cast heartily because for as long as your metal is red it will mix and
join with the other one and will come out very neatly like the main one.
The same thing can be said for pure tin  used for thin things. And
that way for doing pure tin  is one ℥ of new lead  for one
lb. of the former. Large molds must be put in a press held tightly
between two layers of copper , and then bury the whole thing in
sand , which is better than ashes , because being heavy, it
will seal better. Otherwise large molds are prone to open because the
metal is heavy. Some make square molds

When the metal is thick, you do not need to cast as hot as when it is
thin.
+ 
Note that If you want to cast with cuttlefish bone , they cannot
be too warm because that would burn the cuttefish . For this
effect, try paper. It it becomes brown, it is enough, and it is good for
casting, but if it blackens the paper, then it is too hot.

If you want to cast paper with writing on it, make a mixture with half
lead  and half tin . As soon as it is melted, throw it
between two pieces of cardboard  on a flat place that is level.
And with a point or gold  or hard wood , engrave on the left
the writing that you want. And having poured the lead onto the
cardboard , press onto it the other piece of
cardboard .
 
 139v
  are made of earth or blades of copper , or iron , or
wood  covered with white iron , in order to bury more easily
these aforementioned molds between the thin sheets of copper , and
the stirrup or screw of iron .

Casting wax  to mold an animal that one has not got
Take some white wax  which is much more appropriate for this
kind of work than anything else, because it is much firmer and does not
leave as much filth, as much as you need to cast the animal that you
propose, and no more. And take  a half quantity of ground
coal  and neatly sieved through a cloth or coal sleeve, using it to
give some color to your wax , that would otherwise be transparent
and you will not be able to see your lines as clearly. Put your
wax  on the coal fire to melt. And when it is well-melted and
well-liquified, have, for a full eared-porringer of melted wax, as much
sulphur  as a large walnut. Pulverize it. Melt it over a slow fire
and when it is melted, do not leave it on the fire because it will
become too hard. But take it off and keep stirring it with a little
stick and when it has finished bubbling and is as liquified as water,
cast it into the wax  that you will have previously removed from
the fire. And mix and stir both of the them so that they join together.
After stir in little by little while continuously mixing, the
charcoal  that has been repeatedly ground, and in this way it will
be very well incorporated. This is how you will know that your
wax  has gone beyond its ideal heating point, it will release no
more smoke, it will start to have lines appearing on the side and not in
the middle, and those lines will be close to each other. If you cast too
hot, you will not be able to separate your wax from your mold and it
would stick to the cast. When it is at the right state, stir it with a
little stick so that the pulverized charcoal  is well mixed in and
has not fallen to the bottom of the mixture. And in this way, throw it
in your mold bit by bit and not in one go, because wax  is not
runny 

This black sulphured wax  is for fashioning round figures that do
not come out of the mold. And they need to be burned in the moule au
noyau rather than be opened like the ones that have something jutting
out or an intertwining of legs and arms. And this wax , thanks to
the sulphur,  melts with little heat and leaves without leaving
any filth. If by some misfortune the crushed charcoal  remains in
ashes, when you open the mold and blow on it, it will come clean.

To make wax serpents or other things to affix to candles, it is
necessary to cast them with esbaucher wax  of all colors.

 140r
 not like other things. And for this one, you can cast two or three
times until your mold is full. Now, concerning this mold of pulverized
white plaster  & reheated in the manner of the sand 
from the preceding recipes, you should have made it long ago because it
is used many times. But, before using it, soak it for a good hour in
cold water , & at a minimum, at least as long in hot
water  that at first is so hot that you can't hold your finger in it.
And note that it absorbs no more, but that it appears very wet overall
without water seeping into it. In removing it closed from the hot
water , cast your wax  in such a state of heat as has been
described. And neither the first nor the second casting will readily
come out well, hardly, until the mold is soaked. Let it cool down before
opening it so that the cast thing not break. You will know that the
casting is good when the wax  coming back out of the mold is thin
and even. Remember to make several castings along the whole length of
the mold so that in this way the wax  runs better.
Make the first

  casting twice as large as other molds. And if, in the first
casting, your work fills with bubbles and in so doing does not come out
neatly, it's all the same, because you have to face the fact that the
three or four first do not readily come out well. Firstly, you will know
whether there are a few barbs that keep it from stripping well. And you
will remove them if, on their own, they do not remove themselves in the
two or three first castings. And the more that you cast, the more you
will do it neatly. And your mold will serve you more than one hundred
times if it Is well governed. But it is good to soak it one night or one
day before casting so that it be well soaked. The same must be done for
fruits made from sugar. This wax  is very soft & friendly
& pliant, like copper. And if it is hard this is  because of
sulfur , which makes it melt more easily than than other
wax , so much that you can see evidence on a hot slate. And the
sulfur  that you put inside will be found the second time that you
melt it, as  cracks on the bottom. Having in this way passed
through wax , it will not catch fire at all when put to a candle.
And in this case, I believe that it will cast quite the medal  .
One uses the same wax  in place of varnish  to  .

When your animal is cast, cut away the froth & superfluous things
with a hot pen knife. And if you want, plait and wrap it around some
stick or candle, put it in some hot water  to soften and hold it
in turning it around.

Lower the protrusions of the castings so that they be even & that
the wax  has more silver so that it can run all in one go without
turning through the windings of the snake.
 
 140v
 

to engrave on silver  & copper  with aqua fortis. With
this wax   too, one fills the cavity of a relief, & then
casts in this cavity, with moistened sand , which immediately
takes the relief very neatly. And then you can cast its cavity on it in
copper , gold , and silver , and make really singular
seals.

Seals

To cast in sulfur 


To cast neatly in sulfur , arrange the pith of bread  under
the brazier, as you know. Mold whatever you want into it & let it
dry & you will have very neat work.


Try sulfur  passed through melted wax , because it will no
longer ignite & and make eyelets.

Molding and shrinking a large shape


Mold it with the pith of bread just out of the oven, or like that
aforementioned, & in drying out it will shrink & consequently so
will the medal that you will cast. By these means - lengthening out or
enlarging the imprinted bread - you can vary the shape & from one
face make several different ones. The bread  straight from the
oven is best. And the one which has been heated twice contracts more.
You can cast sulfur  without letting the imprint on the
bread  dry, if you want to cast it as large as it is. But, if you
want to let it shrink, let it dry to a greater or lesser extent.

Casting of lead  and tin  in plaster 


If you want to cast any flat medal or any animal that is not very heavy,
and that must not be burnt inside the mold, you can indeed cast in mixed
plaster  & brique , as above; and not in plaster 
alone, because it contracts too much feeling an ardent fire if it is not
so mixed. But, with the brick , it holds well. However, take heed
to dry out your mold at length & on a slow fire & with patience,
because there is no need to reheat it. But when your work is of
flowers  or other things that want their mold to be reheated &
set ablaze, mix the plaster with stone alum  & even with
crocum . I have molded in very neat plaster  &
brick  & it has sustained several castings.


I tried both plaster  & brick  alone and molded en
noyau  with like the others. My mold was very clean, having lightly
oiled  & rubbed my medal with spirits . I made my
casting wide at the entrance, narrowing it as it goes along until it
reaches the medal which is very thin. I notched the casting which
embraced the medal well. I dried the mold out well on a slow fire &
finally, I heated it well without turning it red. I let it cool in such
a way that I could hold my finger to it without burning myself. I made a
line of 4 ℥ of tin , & ix deniers of lead . I cast it
red, and it was quite good and beautiful. Afterwards I put xii deniers
of lead on top of 4 ℥ of tin . It is very good &
beautiful.


When there is nothing to burn in the mold, it is not necessary to reheat
it for lead  and tin . But for flowers  and other
things that must be burned, it is.

 141r
Casting a crayfish 
Thecrayfish  is one of the most fantastical to cast, but
also provides an example for casting other difficult things. You can
distinguish males and female by the eggs that the females carry, and by
the four little white back legs that males have in their tails after
behind main eight legs. It is good to dry them out a bit so that the
bumps come out more hard and beautiful, because none of what is made of
shell shrinks. It is true that should you dry the little inside legs for
too long, they become diminished and have no body. If they are too dry,
the flesh separates from the scales. Be sure then to maintain the mean.
They have certain hairs between the legs and at the end of the tail. And
because all hair is difficult to cast, because it gets mixed up in the
sand and does not release, you can burn it by putting  a hot
iron on the crayfish  so that it the hair  cannot be
seen. As for animals that have hair or feathers, you must grease the
hair with wheat oil , which is very dry and which will make the
hair lay flat and straight. In this way, you will have form of your
animal and you will have the hair. Should it the hair  be
wavy, it can be repaired. If your crayfish  has eggs, which are
delicate, and which will be difficult to take out of the mold without
breaking, you would do better to make the first cast  with the
crayfish  on its belly and eggs. In this way, you will open the
mold with it the crayfish  on its back, which will be hard and
easy to manipulate. And the belly and the eggs will remain in the mold.
And rather than opening your mold for the second time, you will have to
burn it with them in it. This way, it will open easily, and what has
been burned will come away cleanly. In this way, the second casting,
which is done on the first one that has successfully taken hold,
separates easily from the first, after having been refired. This is a
singular secret for similar moldings.
The casting is made by the very thin
tail.
If some little thing is missing, you can
reattach it or else fill it with goldsmith 's
cement .
Do not forget to rub with spirits 
before you mold.
Stag beetles , crayfish 
and crabs  are molded in the same way.
If your crayfish  has no eggs,
mold the back on top and the belly on the bottom. You can give it
some.
It the crayfish  can be molded
hollow for the body, but not for the legs. And for a good result,
take note that  the crayfish  is rather fantastical to
mold hollow, this ought to be reserved for turtles .
When you open your mold, you will find
the crayfish  has white bones, but they will not be powder. And
without opening it, the mercury  will not have affected the
process.
Apply very light oil colors.
To paint it, boil it with wine  and a
bit of salt  so that they become very red and use this as a model.
Paint the back with vermillion  mixed with laquer , and the
sides and the underside of the belly and the legs with vermillion 
and yellow ochre  and white .
 
 141v
 Let your crayfish  dry a little in the sun, by itself. If it
has spawns, they will shrink while drying, and be all the more beautiful
for it. Make your paste out of yellow potter 's earth ,
just like for the other representations. Lay your crayfish  on
it, the back side down, and the other parts which are more tricky to
mold -- legs, belly, eggs - side up. Drive in the back side in the
clay  paste up to the legs, which is about the half part of
the crayfish's body . Fix the body with a pointy iron  thread
in the middle and, if you feel you need it, you can also drive another
one at the edge of the tail. And in order that the big legs be lower
than the head, which is lower because it is linked from below, add a
little clay under the head . Then add a bit of
clay  under the jacket in order to raise it. Hide the feelers
under the clay  and under the crusher claws, then arrange it as
you like. Stretch out the walking legs to the joints, and for the first
cast, bend the second part of the walking legs. Fix the joints of the
legs with wax  and a warm wire  so they will not move. If
you want to mould something fancier, fix the end of one walking legs on
the body or on a crusher claw , using the same wax . If the female
has spawns, bent half the tail over the spawns, and keep the shape by
fixing the tail with a wire . Be sure that you will be able to
clean this part. Finally rub your crayfish  with spirits ,
and cast your sand. Once the sand is hardened, uncover the back side,
the head, the eyes, and the small legs close to the crusher claws, and
the walking legs all along. One must uncover these parts as much as
possible. Then bend and cover the spawns again. The other animals
Fix what may raise the two padded
edges on each side of the mouth  with melted wax  under
them.
 Uncover as many parts as possible, but
be sure the channels you make are well stripped.
Incline your mould to the thickest side
of the animal.
To paint the crayfish, one paints the
middle of the back with vermilion ,  mixed with a bit of
lacquer . The sides, the belly, and below the legs with a mixture
made of vermilion , ceruse , and a bit of yellow
ochre . As with all things, always keep the real one in front of
you in order to copy it as realistically as possible .
Lay the feelers on the crusher claws, or
solder this part with a wire made of bleached brass .
When you arrange the legs, be sure that they
do not get over the belly, and that they are well set against the belly
otherwise  
 
 142r
 are not so uncovered. But since crayfish  are troublesome to
burn & clean, you have to uncover them as much as you can, even the
little legs just until the tips, because they are troublesome & if,
in order to not alter them, you have to take them out, you could break
something of the mold. Having uncovered it with the point of a knife,
like an engraving stick or another fitting thing, clean off the sand at
the joints & elsewhere with your little brush really very
scrupulously. And if something is loosed from the crayfish ,
attach it with wax , as is discussed. And also attach the horns
this way. And also do the casting the length of the extremes of the
little legs with wax . And refill the holes that have been made
with the needles of iron  wire with it. And everything being quite
clean & having uncovered more than half of it, oil  your mold
after having soaked the back side in water , & do not forget
to oil  all the fine parts that are between the legs and the
little beaks; then rub the crayfish  with spirits . And do
your second casting after having made the first mold even, so that the
cramp-irons join better. Your mold must be larger on the side with the
impression than on the back. Do not open your mold after the second
casting, so that it not become clayed  & reheated & that
which is inside not be burned. Do not forget to mix crocum 
throughout your sand when you mold the crayfish , because you
must really reheat it & the crocum  withstands this
marvelously. To mold a crab  & to mold a crayfish 
are exactly the same. When you have uncovered your crayfish  on
one side do not delay at all before doing the second casting, because
crayfish  dry out. It is not enough to uncover the
crayfish  such that you see the whole half the half you
uncover , but take heed that your mold, even when you are
uncovering, be good and stripped, because if the crayfish  gets
well burnt, you will not be able to open your mold without breaking
it.
Restore it with a pen knife, little chisels, or
engraving sticks.
As you see here, but a wax  casting
all around & at the end of the tail, where you will do the principal
casting, two or three more.
 Make the casting with candle wax shaped  in a thread like a large packthread, the whole length
from the end of the claws to the extremity of the tail. If there is also
some claw end or other part that is extended past the rank of the others
or is raised up higher or turned up all alone, make a wax  casting
for it from its end just barely not joined to the body or to one of the
large claws or to some other place where lots of metal  will be
wedged in.
Having uncovered it, attach & secure
the two little bearded horns of the crayfish, and anything else that is
not secured, with wax .

 142v
Molding grasshoppers  and things too thin
If you have to mold a piece of written-on paper  that is too
thin, after you have done the first cast and it has set, give a little
thickness to the reverse of your paper  with melted butter ,
which is the most appropriate means there is, & for strengthening
the wings of either a butterfly  or a grasshopper , or
any delicate part of an animal to which you need to give thickness. But
take heed to apply this melted butter  under the wing or in
whichever place it will not be seen. For giving thickness to a pansy or
other flowers, butter  is not good, but rather wheat oil ,
which is soon dry & holds firm. Wax  would not be appropriate
here for it is too hot once melted, and it makes the thing to which it
is applied contract. But butter  is amiable and handleable.
If you write on paper  or on common
carton  and your letters are made with gum , the moisture of
the clay  plate (?) or the wet (?) sand for a noyau will moisten
your letters and  undo them. Write therefore with
cinnabar  mixed with oil , on oiled & stamped (?)
paper .
+ Reheat your molds with
charcoal  firstly lit in the forge, so that the fire is not too
hot and does not break the molds. And do not fire as strongly where the
mold is thin as where it is thick.

Molds
Make some notches in them the molds  that enter more into
the inside of the mold than the outside because in this way, they have
more strength. Take care to keep from reheating them suddenly in a
burning hot fire, because this will make them break.
Do not keep them molds  in a
humid place, nor an enclosed place if they are not well dry, because
they will mold. The same with dried animals.
It is not at all necessary to reheat the
molds two times when the animal can pull away without burning, as do
toads , which can very well be molded hollow like all thick
animals. However, it is always good to redden the mold once.

Lute  for luting  your molds
I have not found a lute  that is made more quickly than
this one, nor a better one. Take some of the lean earth  that
artillery founders  and bell founders  use to make
their trusseaulx and molds, which is lean and sandy. Soak it moderately
like a very thick mortar . Mix into it about one half of horse
manure  and then beat it well. Afterwards mix in one third of
cloth waste  or cloth shavings  and beat it again quite
strongly. You can reheat your mold as soon as the lute  is
ready.

 143r
Moulding turtles  and tortoises 
The turtle the one that lives in water  is more
beautiful to mold because it has prettier scales and straight legs. And
the tortoises  have crooked ones. They eat a lot. To get ready
to kill them, open their mouth and pass a long penknife through all the
intestines. And then make it swallow some vinegar  mixed with
spirits  or urine , as one does for snakes. It is necessary
to mould them in several pieces, and even the back sometimes because the
sides of certain ones are narrower than others and in this instance do
not release from the cast . To make them die, you must not
boil them, because they come apart, even the shell, in the hot
water . They the shells  come out better when 
hollowed because their great thickness spoils the mold. Turtles 
are more lively. The tortoises  are leaner, slower, and more
sleepy. If you scratch turtles  on their shells, no matter how
sleepy they are, they move; tortoises  do not.
They turtles/tortoises  
die rather quickly in vinegar  mixed with a little spirits 
or urine , as with all other animals.
They turtles/tortoises  
keep their eyes closed in the winter, and appear as dead, having been
numbed by the cold. They hide in the earth or under balls of grain or
warm manure, and survive only on the dampness of the earth .
You must not mold them too soon after
they die because they are still stiff. But on the day after, you will be
able to manipulate them and bend their legs as you wish.

Moulders  from Foix 
Those who mould from across the way  make their sand from
crocum  ferri and calcinated slate , but slate  always
retains its bumpiness and swells because it is a fatty. In the noyau, it
is not good; in sand, it can be put to use. They the moulders from
Foix   sieve their sand, grind it on porphyry , and
soak it in water , and they keep the finest bits which are on the
top, then they reheat it.

Toad 
Having been molded, you can take it out it without burning it,
because it releases easily from the mold. Choose the biggest
and the lumpiest toads  . Because they contain a lot
of metal, it is best to mold them hollow, since they turn out better.
You could make your cast in one great piece, but it would be troublesome
to cut. It is best to do it in three or 4 parts, which will be thicker
close to the animal, and include the most amount of edge that is close
to the cast/mold. Make as well some casting conduits all the way from
the end of the cast .
 

Let the mold cool rather than opening it, even for thick things.
 
 143v
 from one leg to another, so that the spread out limbs are in
connection with one another due to the aforesaid casting conduits, which
you will start in the waxless round parts that you have put at the edge
of the legs to attract the metal. In this way, because you are casting
in wax , there is no danger chipping any part of the molded
animal. It's quicker to make the wax  casting conduits thus,
because in this way you can  cast the second mold after
the first , rather than wait to do them the
conduits  after the mold has been recooked, because then, if
possible, you will need to have everything ready. You need to heat well,
and even redden the molds where there are wax  conduits so that
they melt and leave nothing inside.

Openwork carcanets
You can mold them en noyau like crayfish , first with one
side being made higher with clay , which is hollow, and then you
open it  from the other side and make the second casting. You
can just as well cast en chassis, provided that they release well. If
they do not, you can do a rough cast in wax , or you can fill up
the cavities which do not release well with wax  or
clay .

Iron  filings 
Because usually filings  are mixed with impurities, it is good
to heat them over fire to burn the filth and then wash them in clear
water . In this way, the dirt will rise to the top of the
water , which you will throw out, and the good filings will go at
the bottom.

Carnations
Because those that you usually cast are generally quite big, they
are heavy. And so for these, you make them with silver  leaf or
slivers.

 144r
Turtles 
Turtles are much more beautiful and easier to mould than tortoises,
being that they are flatter and have a longer head and tail, and
straighter legs and release better than tortoises, who are scraggly,
wrinkled, and deeply entrenched in their shells. They
tortoises  also have a rounder top shell which is however
narrower on the sides than in the middle, which means that the top shell
cannot be nicely molded in one go, like those top shells  of
turtles. Thus you will mould the top shell into two pieces, and the
lower shell into two, three, or four pieces according to their
appropriateness. If you want to release your turtle from the mold
without burning it, you must mold it in several pieces. But if you want
to burn what is inside, you can mold your top shell in one piece. So to
get started, once you have completely killed it in vinegar and urine, as
we know, leave it to fully dry out. And clean it well with a cloth. Then
take your clay base place it on it, and scrape the base a bit so that
the undershell fixes in. Having nevertheless previously arranged the
head with a strong needle, as you do with other animals, holding it high
by means of a bit of fresh clay that you will work with from beneath.
Stretch the aforesaid head and legs with your little pincers. Once the
head is in place, dextrously put a grain of yellow millet into each eye
with the pincers, because as soon as they die, the eyes pop out and rot.
You can do the same for any other animal with a large amaranth seed, a
small one, or a grain of rapeseed. This done, you will arrange the legs,
securing them with little iron needles. And then plug with clay the
holes all the empty spaces around the turtle, that is to say, what is in
between the two shells, so that the sand does not hinder the releasing
of it. And because the legs must be lower than the bottom shell, make a
little dimple in your clay base to accommodate them. Your turtle


When they are the well tender and mortifiees & left aside, in two or
three days you will be able to bend and manipulate them better.
 

animal eyes of my own invention
  
 144v
 having been thusly arranged and well cleaned with brushes, put the
circle of clay  around the base. Then, with a roll of clay 
placed on the middle of the back of the turtle , as you can see,
and at the widest place, divide your mold. Next, oil  with your
oiling  brush half the half of the shell you want to mold. If you
sand is a bit thick, temper your sand with warm water , so that
without burning yourself you can put your finger in it without burning
it. And before casting it, rub the shell with spirits . And then
cast your sand and let it take hold. And note that all things that have
shells, or that are hard, or do not yield as snakes  and
lizards  do, must be oiled  to come out cleanly. The
things that yield do not need this. Warm water  means that the
tempered sand sits better on the oil , which otherwise would not
work. With the half turtle  having been thusly molded, separate
it with its mold from its clay  base, which you will put aside to
use when needed. Then clean your half-mold, join it and flatten it like
for the others. But because there will be the roll of clay , the
half mold will have more than just half the turtle  in it, cut
and crop cleanly the excess clay  and clean everything well
with the brushes. Then at the top of the edge of the mold on the side
where it is cut, at the halfway mark, make two notches as you have done
with other molds. And flip the turtle  on its base, as it was,
and secure the two legs that are not molded with iron  pins and
fill the empty areas around it, up to the edge of the top shell with
some clay . Then place the circle around it and place a roll of
clay  on the first mold, a bit above the notches. And having
oiled  the first half-mold and its notches and the shell of the
turtle , and having also sprinkled it with spirits , warm
your water , temper your sand with a bit of salt water ,
ammoniac , and the aforesaid hot water , make your cast.
Having taken hold, keep the sides of the two molds neatly together, and
for each side secure the joints, which are not prone to do so naturally,
with two clamps, so that when you uncover the bottom of the
turtle  the top joint does not open. Then open the side with the
belly and the throat, in the same manner that you would open a
crayfish , which is the hardest animal to mold of all animals
that are molded in two parts.
  You can also mold your turtle 
in one piece for each side, but you will need to burn it. And then to
make the hollow, the recooked mold cannot be well-oiled  because
it absorbs the oil .
+ 

If there is crocum  in your sand, the joints of the molds will not
join well together. 


Turn to the second leaf.

 145r
Casting in three frames
You can cast bronze  mortars and similar things which release
well in three frames. That is to say the body of the mortar in one, its
noyau in the other, and the base of the mortar in the third one, because
otherwise the cast which is there will not release well.
Inquire

 

A

Cuttlefish bone 
You must not heat the tin  or lead  too hot, otherwise
they will burn the bone  and become lumpy. And to know when it is
the right temperature, dip in it a little piece of twisted paper .
If it turns black without catching fire, it is the right temperature.
But if it burns & catches fire, it is too hot. You can cast
gold  & silver , but it never comes out neatly. To cast
something delicate well, it is necessary that the bone  not be
extremely dry, because it is rough & does not release as well &
crumbles & is brittle. In any case, before you cast, dry them
the bones   & especially for gold , which does
not react well to humidity. You will know that they are dry enough when,
after having exposed the insides and the imprint to the fire, they hiss
& crackle when you bring them near your ear. Now join the
bone s & daub the joints with a little lute  and slowly
dry it near the fire & cast & then shake the mold or scratch the
rough crannies and let it cool down before opening it. Usually one cuts
the bone  in the middle, and the dull part that does not have half
circles   is more delicate and smoother to mold with, and
therefore one always uses it to do the main part of the casting, the
other part of the cuttlefish bone   is crumbly on the
inside as on the outside. Therefore one does not use this to cast
delicate things which need to be molded in two places. One evens out
& flattens these two halves on some piece of wood, then one rubs
some charcoal  on top so that it releases well. And to make sure
the charcoal  is evenly spread everywhere, tap the side of the
hand which is holding the half bone . Both having been covered in
charcoal , take the first bone  that has been prepared &
rounded on the edges, and having placed the medal above it, press the
medal down strongly.
 
 145v
 But with fingers you cannot press evenly, because if you press on
the edges, the middle will remain hollow. Start therefore with the
middle, & then do the edges. But to do it better, put something flat
& even on the medal, or some large square file, & press with
that; because you will press evenly, sometimes with your knee, other
times with your foot with your shoe taken off. & do it from above,
so that you impress it without breaking it. If it is not well molded on
the first go, do it again several times. Then restore and flatten your
halves of molded bone from the sides. And to cut them well, always start
from the most tractable part, coming out to the shell. And if your medal
does not come out on its own, scratch the rough bone from behind and it
will strip. When you want to cast, settle & affix the two bones with
little pins of wood & in order to cast neatly, you have only to try
it with sand.

Moulding herbs and flowers
You do not need thin sheets of clay , because the herbs and
flowers will not lay on it, but as it were in the air, not touching
anything from any side, so you only have need of a circle & contour
that is higher than for flat molds. And in this way, take heed to make
it strong and thick, with the heft that you find suitable. Otherwise, it
will sink in when the sand is inside. Fix & fortify it well with
your foot & firmly attach all the joints. Then, have your flower
well attached & assuredly fixed to the bottom of the casting with
wax  that is not at all rough, but smooth, so that it can strip
off well. Then moisten your flower or herb in good spirits  in a
tall glass.

Flowers
+ 

When you mold them, if they are not strong enough to hold themselves
upright, run a thread through the mold to keep them lest they do not
hoist themselves up. & cast the sand little by little &
continuously and blow on it strongly and constantly so that it covers
everywhere. Otherwise, it will become lumpy. Since you won't put
anything in thin sheets of clay , the mold sometimes sticks to the
table on which you mold. To release it, strike a great blow on the side
of the table with a hammer.
 

It's enough to reheat your clayed mold once for flowers & to heat it
the second time if you cast in tin  & lead , in so much
as for gold  & silver , you have to reheat it
twice.


When very red, cast your tin into the mold when it is so hot that you
cannot?  hold your finger in the hole without  .
 
 146r
 so that it is wet everywhere. If not, wet it with a large brush
dedicated to this. Then pass the end of an iron  wire that holds
the wax  casting through the end of the mold that closes the
circle and have the iron  cleave the clay  mold as you see;
& position it on the bottom, attending that the herb or flower does
not touch anything, and leave some thickness to your mold, because the
moistened sand always elevates the herb or flower. Even so, if it isn't
thick of its own accord, pass a slender thread through the flower with a
needle to keep it elevated. Or, if you forget this, lower the flower
with a little stick just until the cast sand starts to thicken. With
your flower well-positioned, take a platter large enough to moisten all
the sand that you will need to fill the mold. Put a little sal
ammoniac water  in it, and then some spring water , and when
your platter is almost full, put a sprinkle of your sand on it, &
mix it, & steep it until it becomes totally uniform, because if it
were to clot it would consume the mold. For flowers it does not need to
be very thick. And likewise, at the beginning, when you just barely pour
it so it remains transparent on your flower & covers it sort of half
way, blow strongly everywhere so that you eliminate the little bubbles,
and afterwards finish filling it & blow, always slightly tilting
your mold down towards its larger side. And if you find some remainder
of thick sand that was not well soaked, set it rather close to the
casting than otherwise. Then you can cast some thicker moistened sand to
make it set sooner. I molded a marigold, with its leaves, in this
manner. Crocum ferri  is safer for flowers, and when there is some
crocum , clay it with the same sand that has already been used and
is the most excellent of all.



The stem on which I cast a large branch of marigold with its flower, its
buds and its leaves came out neatly, just like nature, was made of one
lb. of fine tin  mixed with two ounces of lead .


If there are a few froths, fix it with a pen knife.


Uncover the molded flower while gently breaking the mold with the point
of a knife. And, even better, soak it well in water . Afterwards,
try a pig brush at the end of an iron  wire, etc.


When the mold is reheated for the first time, leave it to cool down
halfway. Then, run an iron  wire gentle through the casting to
make an opening for the burned ash inside. Afterwards, blow inside with
a bellows and turn the mold over on the casting to make everything
leave, & sometimes blow and suck in with your mouth.


Heed that you not attach the stem of the flower too firmly to the
casting with wax , lest it consume something when you remove the
wax  from the casting. To remove it, you have to loosen it a bit
all around & then draw it out by the iron  wire with little
pincers.
 146v
Moldingturtles 
This page is the continuation of the preceding second page.Since you
have cleanly uncovered the part of the belly of turtle , its
underparts, its throat, and its legs, and having cleaned it all well, do
not forget to neatly uncover the cavity that these animals have in their
shell between the neck and the shoulders. Turtles  do not have
as deep of a cavity as tortoises , which are more scraggly, and
even amongst those, there are some that have a deeper cavity than
others. Do not therefore forget to neatly uncover all of this in order
to better represent its likeness. But if there is a cavity which spirals
too much inside, and is not visible, nor releases well, apply some small
lumps of wax  and with heated needles of thick iron  and
work the aforesaid wax . Then plug the entrance to all of these
cavities with soft clay . Put the circle of clay  around the
mold, which has already been made of two pieces and contains the back of
the turtle . And to mold its belly, you must separate it in
three as you can see. That is to say, you will put a roll of clay 
on top of the throat and another one on the edge of the shell of its
tail, so that only the shell of the entire stomach will be accessible to
be molded on its own. Having oiled  the shell of the belly and
having rubbed it with spirits , thrown you slightly thick sand,
which has been tempered with hot water  as before. Having taken
hold, remove the rolls of clay , then uncover the front and back
legs, that is to say the bottom bit, and the throat and the tail, and
remove the clay of all the cavities in one go if you can, because this
will show you if the cavity will release well. And if the removed
clay  carries with it some of the wax  you have applied, put
it back into the places that did not release well, as has been said. And
if some bit of the turtle  has come away with the clay ,
or fallen off, attach and rejoin it to the mold with some wax ,
using a heated iron  needle. Do not forget to put some melted
wax  at the edge of the turtle 's nails when you cast.
Having molded and uncovered the shell of the belly, you will see the
mold in this way.# 
   
 147r
 Be warned to make an edge of wax  melted with a warm
wire  all around the edge of the top shell which is close to the
tail in order to make a better cast. And make it so that two small
strings of the same wax  goes from the end of the shell of the
belly to the aforesaid wax  edge, which is around the backbone of
the shell, and the turtle 's tail should stay in between those
two strings. This to make a better cast. This done, oil  your mold
and what you can see of the shell. Put the circle around this, and cast
with hot water  as before, and doing what you have done in the
same manner to mold the third part which is the tail. And having taken
hold, take away the clay  contours, clean your mold, bring it
together, and flatten it on all sides with a knife as you have done with
other molds. Lightly dip it in water , then try to release it.
Usually, one starts by the shell of the back, which is to say the top
mold that is made of two halves. And this one is easier to release. The
other follows directly after, but because it is next to the
turtle 's shoulders which are deeply entrenched, it is sometimes
troublesome to do this when lightly shaking and pulling the mold. Be
advised to pull the easiest one first, because you will need to release
them one after the other. The hardest one of all is the one molding the
throat, the underside of the legs, and the cavities of the shoulders,
which are so difficult to release, that if you do not plan accordingly
by filling it with wax rather than molding what cannot been released, it
will be difficult to take the pieces without breaking something. But if
it happens to you again, there is a solution, provided that you keep the
broken pieces, because you can reassemble them with stong iron needles,
and fill whatever crack or flaw you have with some melted wax and hot
iron as you have with others so that the noyau to mold hollow is easier
to do. After
See the second page
To prevent breaking while releasing, be
advised to uncover up to the point where it can still hold.

 147v
 + Casting with copper  alloyed with
☾  , which is like very low solder  and
ard... es and old K  and some Re out of xii
I have cast the cleanest I have ever seen, making very small figures
as thin as paper. I have cast extremely hot in the very red mold, and
have put into the melted mixture the two compositions which makes
silver  runny, and have done as if I wanted to throw with pure
silver . This league  is white when it boils, as with every
other alloy which contains even just a small bit of silver . To
cast something very delicate, use this.

Lute 
There is none better than the one you have used to mold, that is to
say lumps from your molds. But you need to choose some of the better
recooked ones.

Crucible
Beware that it should be three fingers away from the mouth of the
bellows and that the aforesaid bellows is positioned underneath the
bottom of the crucible, otherwise it will cool it down.

Latten  casting
I have taken the one you find in latten  skillets, which have
been beaten and forged quite thinly. Having well-heated it, I threw in
two or three grains, like beads of sal ammonicac . This will
clarify it like a mirror, having turned very white from all the heating,
I threw in it some crushed raw and pure calamine . The I casted it
in its very red mold. Il cast cleanly and thin like paper , and
hollow on the back. Because it has become crusty I cooked it again,
which to means to say, I reddened it, and left it to cool, then put it
in bleach , made partly with raw tartar  and half of common
salt . Having boiled it well, I brushed it in clear water ,
because the first time it was
Do not let it cool down when melting. It
always makes into filaments, as you would find with melted glass ,
because of the calamine . Usually, the soft letten  of
skillets, becomes red from casting, even when it has been in the fire
for a longtime, because the calamine  evaporates. But the brittle
letten  of candleholders becomes yellow, as well as the
filings  made of needles.
 
 148r
 not come out as clear as I wanted. I reheated it again, let it cool,
put it into the bleach  again, and brushed it . It came out
very clear. In this way, you will do the same  for copper 
and silver . And if you want to give...

Beautiful color for brass 
Having cleaned it well, as is stated, and brushed it well, boil it
in water with curcuma root  or terra merita , and it will
become very beautiful.

Bleach 
If it is for silver , do not grind your tartar  with
something made of iron , but with the handle of a
hammer, because if you touch your tartar with iron  and end
up  getting some iron  in your bleach , the silver 
will come out red, like copper , and you will need to reheat it
and put it back in the bleach . Mix in nothing with your
tartar  that should not enter the bleach , because this
ruins it. Do not let it spill out when it first starts to boil because
all its strength is in it at this point . Bleach  is made
with one part pulverized tartar  and a half part of common
salt .

Moulding the foot of the bittern, or eagle, or other birds for the
base of saltcellars or vases
One commonly molds the foot and the legs up until the calf. And for
this effect, one molds it in five pieces: the leg in two pieces, the top
of the foot in two, and the bottom in one piece.
with three pieces

Crocum Ferri 
To make this quickly, redden the filings  in an iron 
ladle, stirring it often. Then sprinkle it with some good vinegar 
and let it evaporate. And without taking it away from above the fire,
let it redden and take flame. Having been cooled, pulverise it  on
the marble  and return it to the heat, sprinkle with
vinegar , and then set it on fire. In this way it will soon be
colored and made fine.

 148v
Molding turtles 
Join the parts of your mold and fix very carefully clamps on all
joints, which are on the top, the bottom and the sides of the mold; do
not forget to notch the joints as you did with the other moulds. Once
you have fixed all the clamps, remove the sides ones, not the others.
Thus your mold, made of several pieces, will open as if it was only made
of two parts. If you want to mould hollow, pierce a hole big enough to
thread the end of your little finger in the middle of your mold's belly.
Widen the outside of the hole, like clervois, in order to cast the core.
You could avoid all these difficulties if you didn't mold hollow; you
could then mold your turtle  in two pieces, more quickly, and
burn it inside of the mold like other animals. But a turtle  is
weighty, and would be heavy if not molded hollow. This is why it is
considered better to mold it that way. It takes three days to make the
proper hollow  mould. To mold hollow and fantastic
forms , you need very strong plaster  which can
withstand fire without bursting. But if you can't get this kind of
plaster , add to it a little more stone alum , and also add
crocum , which fortifies it the plaster   and
makes the flaws -- if there are any -- so fine that they can be easily
removed. Do not forget to tighten your mould with a press in order to
avoid flaws that happen when your mold is not tight enough, or when it
bursts. To repair it, if the lines are not apparent enough retrace with
a burin, then soften the lines with a ciselet. You can remove the flaws
with a chaple, a kind of burin. For the lumps and crumbly bits, they can
be made with a gadet or a small carving tool which isn't hammered, and
hitting with a small file.
Make this hole before joining the
mould.

 149r
Softening iron  and making it really soft
Take some sublimate , some quicklime , soap from
Venice , some horse manure , use less sublimate  than the
other ingredients. Moisten all of them together, forming a paste and
apply this to the iron , and wrap the whole thing in a dirty rag.
Then reheat it until it becomes very red. Or leave it overnight in a
good fire until the morning. It will be very soft and you will be able
to engrave whatever you wish on it.

Gold of lesser quality from Germany ,
Electre 
One calls it gold  from the Rhine , which you can find
in the rivers, and it comes in gold flakes. German goldsmiths  wanted to refine it, thinking that they could
separate it from the whitenes, which they thought was silver . But
it always stayed white, which proves that this whiteness is fixed and
it's only fault lies in its color. This is electre , from which
you can make cups, which will reveal poison.

Various arts from Germany 
They make great use of water mills, and most of these artisans
working with gold , silver , and any other metal, bring
their large works to the mills to be hammered. And to pull iron
thread , they heat large amounts of iron , making it into a
point, they hang it up still red, and very quickly pull it.

Repairing medals
If you want to mold any medal to use as a model, and at the same
time repair it, cast it in a greater quantity of tin , and put in
it a good amount of tin alloy  to make it harder.

 149v
Molding vases in several pieces
Goldsmiths  who make large works and crockery use a
turning lathe to get the model they wish in wood. Then with some
wax , the goldsmiths  model on top of this the
masks, festoons, or anything that they wish. Then they mould the model
in three, four, or several pieces.

Gold  solder
They take on a gold  penny a small pinch of refined
aloc , as you would find in old sous. 

Molding flies 
Large flies  can be molded & cast. But you must apply
underneath their wings some wheat oil , which dries quickly and
firms them up & gives them a little thickness. The same thing can be
done with butterflies , cicadas , grasshoppers 
& similar things. But to cast them more easily, you must set them on
some leaf or bouquet. The others should be placed by hand on a very
slender silver  blade. You cannot keep your insects when they are
dead, since they will dry out and their legs will break.
Wheat oil  should be put underneath delicate things to make them
more rigid & firm, & to make them hold their natural posture,
since being weak & delicate, the tempered sand, adding weight to
them, would change their form.

Bats 
They have very thin wings and if they are large & dry and the
wings are extended, you need a very big mold & it is not certain
that the metal  will run sufficiently; thus, when you want to mold
some, choose the medium-sized ones & and arrange them so that they
have their wings are half folded, since in this way they will come out
better. But be sure to apply, as you known, some wax  on the side
of the wings, so that the cast flows well.

 150r
Very strong wax 
Mix with this some resin  and bole . Do not cast very
hot.

Diverse ligues of tin  and lead 
For hollow things like turtles , half refined lead 
and half tin .
For flowers, almost all lead , that is to say, a lb of refined
tin , and two ℥  of refined lead .
For lizards  that are as thick as one or two fingers, almost
all lead , that is to say, a lb of refined lead  and 4
℥  of refined tin .

Moulds
They are less prone to cracking while reheating when they are very
thick, rather than thin, provided that thickness is sufficient. Because
when they are thin, they do not need to be fired for long, and prolonged
exposure to heat corrupts them. The same thing will happen if you
plaster  is not strong.
It is better to reheat one mold on its own, rather than heating it
with others, because should this be the case, you will need a stronger
and hotter fire, than for just the one mold . And because
charcoal  will accumulate between multiple molds, the heat will
transfer from mold to mold in such a way that you will often find that
your molds have burst and crack on one side more than the other.
Therefore reheat your molds, not applying fire, except to cover
it.
And because your lead  and tin  become brittle when
melting the over high heat, in order to make them less brittle, heat
them over low heat, and cast in stick form.
Brick cools the metal , and if this is not for binding, it is
not necessary.
The reheated moulds cannot withstand
several casts, but the ones in which you only cast tin  or
lead  and flat medals, these being dry, withstand a lot of
casts.
Iron filings  being finely ground,
makes them molds  very firm and strong.

.
 150v
Molding hollow
This iron  thread needle which you put thusly in the mold, is
to better secure the noyau and keep it from shifting. All of this having
been thusly arranged, lay your mold on the table, hole facing upwards,
as it is explained at the side. And then fashion a circle made of soft
clay , of about two fingers high around the hole, as you have done
with other molds. And then temper your molding sand to an average
thickness, and throw it in the hole until it mold  is very
very full, that is to say until you reach the clay  circle. Be
advised not to throw it sand  in the middle of the hole, but
from the sides, because the already made mold, will drink and suck the
moisture. And the new sand that you throw on the sides of the mold,
because drying quickly, will plug the mold and not leave you enough
time  to fill up. Whereas if you throw it the sand  from
the side, when you realize it is drying too quickly  and plugs
up, you can make a path for it. Having thrown it in, blow on the
tempered sand, and insert the tip of your finger in the hole a few
times, or some kind of pointy thing to keep it moist, in order to make
sure that the hollow wax  does not fill up. At the end throw in
the thicker tempered sand to strengthen the mold, because when
water  rises up to the edge of the mold, it always makes it
softer. Having taken hold, get rid of the clay  circle and any
raised parts that relate to the hole through which you threw the noyau,
and you will not even realize the process took place. Once your mold has
been thusly prepared, lute its outside with the same sand that you used
to make the mold. Then reheat it on with a low heat to begin with, slant
the mouth of the cast downwards so that the wax  trickles out
slowly, because if you reheat it over very high heat to make the
wax  come out, it will boil inside it the mold , and
will leave blisters and lumpy bits on it the cast , as long
as


This iron  thread needle is placed in the middle and the hole of
the cast, when the mold is in many pieces, as is the one for
turtles . And you do this so that the noyau does not shift. But
when the mold is made out of only two pieces, it is not necessary to put
needles in the middle.

  
Rather than cast the noyau, make some
notches around the edge of the hole through which you would like to
cast, so that your mold is even more secure.
Mixed tallow  means that when you
empty your wax  when you are emptying the mold of wax , it
does not clog.
You will need half tallow  and
half black wax .
Every thick piece comes out better when
molded hollow, because a thick mass of mostly lead will stay warm for a
long time and eat away at the mold.
After the cast, you can mold the part of
the shell of the belly where you made your hole on the real thing
animal  and fix it with solder .
X Note that after your noyau has been cast, it is better
to put your mold in hot water  to open it, so that you can take
away as much wax  as you can, always softening it in the hot
water . Because the less wax  you have on it, the better it
is, because it will reboil when you reheat your mold, and you will get
blisters and lumps. And if you have little wax  left in the
mold  you will not need to reheat it as much. When you open your
mold the cast will break. But it can easily be repaired as long as you
castA 
 
 151r
 the white wax  you have used to make black sulfured wax 
has so little substance, being dry and purified, that it leaves nothing
with it the mold mentioned in the first part of this recipe 
and trickles very gently. As for the coal  which is mixed in it,
if there is some left, it burns and reduces to ash, and can be taken out
afterwards by blowing into the cast. You can open your mold after the
wax  has been melted, if it does not contain a fantastical piece
which could break, which are like pieces added on or similar. After
having covered the clamps with lute  from your sand, and having
covered the entire mold, add to this a layer of common luth , and
then sprinkle ground brick  so that you can better manipulate it.
Leave the lute  to dry slowly, rather than putting it in the fire,
which will melt the wax . The wax , having exited the cast,
that which remains of it, mixed up with the charcoal , will burn.
Having reheated it for the first time, lute  it again, because
should your plaster  be bad, it will have eaten away at the mold
and it will be found in the space between joints, which can result in
large overflow. And for the second time, you must not reheat it if you
want to cast only in lead  or in tin , simply make sure that
the lute  is very dry and your mold attains an average heat. For
those very large turtles  that have enough thickness, it is
better to cast using an alloy of half tin  and half lead ,
as you do with hollow things. Because if you only need to cast very thin
and fragile things like flowers, rely instead on using more lead 
than tin , which bubbles when cast a bit thickly and will easily
some flaws to your cast. Master Alexander says he has never gone astray
with using half tin  and half lead  for things that are
heavy and as thick as the back of a knife. If there is crocum ,
you will not be able to clearly see the joints and as a consequence the
metal overflow is very small and thin. You can repair this, and through
the hole of the belly draw out the earth from the noyau, leaving it to
soak for a long time.
When you have thrown your black wax 
in the mold and it has well-cooled, you will have to open half of your
mold to make your cast. Should your black wax  figure break, there
is no danger, because it can always be reattached with a hot iron 
needle. Or if the pieces have not separated well from their mold, they
will meet up and join as before, by joining and tightening the two
halves of the mold. When your figure is big, you must interweave more
iron  threads inside to give support to the noyau.

 
A only in lead or in tin. You must however heat the mold
as much as if you were about to burn an animal inside, so that the
wax  melts well and leaves nothing inside, and trickles out while
holding the mold slanted towards the cast and at the same time reheating
it. And when the mold has been reheated, leave it to cool slowly, then
blow inside and suck out the wax ashes. Do this with a bellows.
 
 151v
 However, do not remove it before you have prepared the whole
turtle , because you will use this earth  as
cement , should you need embed something or make repairs with a
chisel. If you have some metal overflow at the joints of your mold, you
will remove it, either with a burin, called a chaple, or with a very
sharp pen-knife, or with a small file followed by the chisel. Always
keeping in front of you the real thing to do as best you can. You can
curl on a file a chisel point, which is not at all moistened, to make
something lumpy. For these turtles  and any other hollow things
which you can assume are quite big, create a ligue  of half
lead  and half refined tin . There is more to do when
molding a turtle  than when molding a dozen flowers. If there is
crocum  in your sand, there will be no metal overflow and if you
are unfortunate enough that there should be some on the sides, these
will be as thin as paper , as long as your mold is very tightly
pressed together. And to make the scales of turtles  and other
animals, you can make little chisel marks in the shape of round punch
cutters, others in the shape of a gouge, or shaped like a snake 
or lizard  scale, and other using a file used to make twisty
bits and lumps. Turtles  that do not need to be molded hollow
are not as much work, because they are molded in two pieces and repair
them with little chisels that make  punch cutters, little
couge, and serrated chisels.

 

Wheat oil 
You must make it between two empty iron  blades, the bottom
one in particular will be slanted downwards and on this one you will put
an even and equal layer  of wheat . Then you will place
on it the other blade , which is very hot, and you will press
it down until you see the black oil  drip. Remove the top blade
when you have enough. This oil  dries very quickly. It gilds
silver  and varnished things, deepens the color of gilded things,
can be used  as a varnish  on iron  before you
engrave it, and to varnish the tanned leather  parts  of
sword hilts. And it could also be used by those who make gilded
leather  .
You must use this, as has been done
recently. And for things you need to mold, it must not be as thick as
for dyeing.


You cannot use this to oil hairy
animals, because it is too strong and rigid, but it is good to apply to
the foot of a little animal, like a fly  and other similar
things. It is also excellent to dye white stones  

 152r
Molding a rat 
The hairs of his whiskers are difficult to come out of the mold, you
can therefore shave them with fire, as did the tyrant of
Syracuse , which you can always replace with life-like
silver  ones. The tail comes out beautifully because it is made of
little scale-like circles, almost like the ones of a lizard .
And to make sure that the hair does not keep you from molding well, burn
them away with a little candle. The rest of the body must be oiled with
wheat oil , which will keep the hair rigid and flat, so that it
will not be removed when it mixes with the sand, which will keep you
cast from releasing cleanly. Wheat oil , being dry, will dry
quickly, you will therefore be able to comb the hair with a very fine
comb, so that the hair will be visible when cast. On a small
mouse  you can use common oil  to flatten the hair. Rather
than molding these animals immediately (except for snakes  and
lizards ), keep them dead for a day a two so that they become
easier to handle. Because they are very stiff after they die and cannot
be shaped into a life-like looking position unless they are softened.
However, if you mold it straight after it dies, and give it its shape
before it becomes stiff, that will be good. And because the eyes die
unless you mold them immediately, you can replace them with half a round
pea  taken out of its shell. Some cast their rats  without
any added preparations; others oil them with olive oil  which
suits the purpose, because wheat oil  is thick and has too much
body. This is why we only use it wheat oil  in light strokes
on fly 's feet or beneath a wing, to keep them stiff. Others
flatten the hair with an egg yolk , which dries quickly and does
the job. Arrange it the rat   on its clay  base
before oiling it. Raise its head with an iron  needle, and also
secure its feet with needles, and it tail. Rub it with spirits 
after the oil  has dried. Then throw in your sand. Uncover it as
you would other animals, then do your second casting. You must not open
the mold until it is completely reheated and the rat  has burned
away.
+ If it is a big
rat , it is better to cast it hollow, because it is thick. A
mouse  is easier to mold because it has shorter hair. It is
impossible to mold an animal with big bones well, such as a bird or
rat , without opening the mold to clean it well, because bones
do not burn well.
All kinds of feathers and hairs are
difficult to mold realistically.
It is better to use butter  to
grease hairy animals than wheat oil , because it is better suited
to the purpose.
If the rat  is big, it is better
to remove its entrails, or having molded it, let it dry in an oven,
because the large amount of moisture it contains would boil inside the
mold, which would ruin it and make it lumpy.
Only put your mold in the oven after it
has cooled, drying slowly, otherwise it will absorb the moisture and
break.

 152v
Repairing things that have been cast


It happens often that what you have cast has metal overflow, through a
fault in the mold, the cast, or the metal . Faults in the mold
arise from plaster  which is not hard and strong and cannot
withstand fire, which is corrected by mixing in crocum . If you
use too much tin  to cast things that are of an average thickness,
it will not release well, because tin that is cast thickly, shrinks and
bubbles. Similarly, the things you need to mold hollow can be
fantastical to cast. If therefore you happen to have a flaw, have at
your disposal a small leather  pouch full of fine sand, and having
placed it on the edge of a goldsmith 's bench, where one
files, place upon it your work, and secure it there with a rope which
passes underneath your foot. The sand in your pouch will respond to
the pressure of your foot , and will immediately be thicker on one
side and thinner on the other. Then immediately with a burin, outline
and quickly make the subtle parts of your cast which did not come out,
or which did not come out distinctly enough, or with a file or a chaple,
remove your metal  overflow. If there is a flaw in your materials
that has left a hole or something too hollow, scrape it with a burin and
make notches around that hole, then make an imprint of this with
wax . And place this imprint on a fine lead  blade, and in
this way mark the appropriate size of lead , or of any other alloy
which resembles your casting material the most. Then place this piece of
work on the notched part and attach it well with some with yellow
latten  or copper  wire - and if you are dealing with
tin  or lead  rub in some rosin  around the edge - and
apply all around it the replacement piece  some little thin
pieces of solder  or tin , or any other thing. Then with a
hot iron , or above the heat source of the forge, solder it
together, and then repair all of this with the aforesaid tools and the
appropriate chisels.


For gold  or a small work, you will need to attach them to a
lead  ball, which you will then place on the leather  pouch
and it will help secure the piece with the rope.
  
 153r
Moulding the hollow part of a mold for seals or other
things
Firstly fashion your figure in wax  on an even slab of
glass  or slate . After, mold it with our aforesaid sand,
having beforehand lightly smeared with oil  as you know, and
having rubbed it with spirits , while tempering your sand with
hot water . Having made the hollow part, cast it in lead ,
using the same alloy as you do for other figures that come out very
neatly. However, if it does not release cleanly, repair it. And then
mold with wax  on the lead  relief & you will have a
very neat cavity in the wax  that comes out very neat in
lead . After, in your wax  hollow part, throw in your
tempered sand which will give you a relief, upon which you will cast
your hollow part with silver , or any other metal used for seals.
But note that you must not make your hollow part with melted wax ,
but only with wax  warmed in hot water , or even better in
hot urine . Or else, if you have a relief in gold  or
silver , or any other very neat and flawless metal, mold your
wax  hollow part directly upon it, and throw your sand in it
wax hollow , which will form your relief, upon which you will
cast your hollow part to make your seal or any other work. You could
also cast a hollow part directly from the main part of your metal, even
should you want to cast  in lead  or tin , which
will not make the main part of your metal melt, if it has been lightly
brushed with crushed chalk , or covered with candle soot ,
or with dried glair of egg .
When you have the wax  imprint of
your seal, mold in a noyau this piece of wax , which is hollow
like your seal, and your noyau will make a mold similar to the imprint
and the seal.
Your wax  must be mixed with a
color that has little body, so that you may better see your imprint. The
lamp black  or soot black  is good for this. White
wax  to do this is even better.

Giving a medal the thickness that you wish
Having cast your first mold, mix some crocum  or well-ground
iron scales  to make it your mould  firmer. And having
taken hold, and made your hollow part very neat, take some paste made of
fine
 
 153v
 flour . And to flatten it, take a small stick of wood 
that is round and of an even thickness, which has at both ends a small
circle that sticks out from the rest, in order to give the necessary
thickness to your paste . And then with this rolling pin, flatten
it so that it becomes thin and tenuous. Then apply it on the hollow part
of your mold and press it down with cotton , and your figure will
impress itself on the paste, in relief on one side, and hollow on the
other. This done, with a brush that is dipped in melted butter ,
grease the part of the paste  that is hollow. Then trim off the
extra paste  which extends beyond the hollow of the mold. Also
oil  your mold with olive oil , as you have done with
others. Apply your clay  contour, and cast your second mold. And
you will have a medal as thin and hollow on one side as you wish. You
can have various rolling pins which some edges are more raised than
others, in order to make various thicknesses, or you can use sheets
lead  and copper  of various thicknesses, or
cardboard , all cut with the rolling pin.
 If you were to oil  your
paste , the paste  would absorb the oil  and it
the oil  would penetrate through the paste , right up to
the edge of the mold and attack it. But butter  remains on the
surface of the paste , and does not penetrate it. For these back
bits, you must not temper your sand with hot water , because it
will melt the butter .  

Testing the virtues and strength of sand that is to be
reheated
Once the sand has taken hold, you must find it soft and easy to cut,
and not surly. It is better to test it in a large and fantastical mold,
rather than a small one, because the big one will stay in the fire
longer and the small one reheats very quickly.

Softening gold 
Sometimes, you can find gold  that is so dry that neither
cement  nor antimony  can soften it. Only verdigris 
can soften this gold .

 154r
Removing gold 
Gold  as gilding goes away if the coin is reheated and placed
against a strong fire, even if there is lead , because
lead , which contains much mercury  will pierce a
gold  coin in a fire.

Cutting lead 
Because it lead   is fat, hard to catch and corrosive to
the knife and the scissors, wet it up and you will be able to  cut
it like glass .

Sometimes, gold  and silver , exposed to a certain kind of
smoke, take on a coloration during the casting. But these are neither
flakes nor coat but a colour which will go away during the
whitening.

Softening silver 
When goldsmiths  who work on a large scale have forged
their plates, to their loss these plates  quite often break and
crack because they have been sharpened too much. In order to avoid this,
when it is quite melted, throw in ground dry mortar  made of
sand  and good lime  which has been used before.
Goldsmiths  do not work with silver  from real 
because it is rich in lead  and becomes sour when forged.


For small works and things that need to go only once to the fire, some
weld with some old sol  or carolus  reheated and beaten.
However if the sol  is not quite good enough , the welding
will not hold as there is too much copper  and one will have to
weld twice. Others weld with an alloy made of  half silver 
and half fine copper .

Iron  flakes
Once it is quite ground and refined on the marble  slab and
mixed with the sand  from the core mold , dry it slowing
without reheating it, and it will allow for several casting of
lead  and tin . Copper  and brass  come out fine
of it. But if it is not ground as finely as crocum , it sinks
unless the sand  is soaked and quite thick.

Metal file dust 
It does not melt by itself if it is not helped with some portion of
similar metal  melted to assemble it and bathe it, as it is more
burnt than melted. File dust  from tin  and lead  are
made with tallow , file dust   from gold  with
saltpeter , file dust   from silver  with
sandever. 

 154v
Latten 
Latten  is wonderful to cast. It is necessary to be cast very
hot. And to master it better, throw in some sal ammoniac  to
clarify it. You can also add a bit a red copper , and if you wish
to, add in a bit of tin  to make it runnier. It always leaves
filaments like melted glass . It does not require as long of a
cast as others.

Moulding
It is a good thing that it be cooled on the outside, but
nevertheless remain hot on the inside, because when it comes out of the
fire, the air and the strong fumes from the fire do not reheat the cast
well. 

Casting silver 
Silver  requires a long cast, whereas for gold  it does
not matter. Silver , when soldering, withstands the water 
you throw at it. Whereas gold  sizzles, and because of this one
throws its ? on the solder .


Let the mold cool well after the casting, rather than opening
it.

Strengthening flowers and delicate things
For flowers and small plants, do not use wheat oil . Instead,
use some melted butter  which you will apply lightly with a small
brush on the back of the rose leaves, and pansies and any other flower
that needs it. But one reinforces the little feet of flies  and
other small animals with wheat  oil to make them stronger and hold
up.

Strawberries 
The leaves are cast separately and then rejoined with solder. And
because the strawberry fruit is cast solid, and because of this it is
heavy, and the tin  stem is slender, it will not be able to
sustain weight  without breaking quickly. One makes the stems
with latten  thread and then solder them back onto the fruit.

 155r
Moulding a rose
Because of the little branches of the rose bush, which are around
the flower, are sometimes very spread out, they would demand too big of
a mold. We make and cast them separately, the rose and the rosebuds
separately as well. And then one brings them together, soldering the
little branches and leaves of the rose bush to the stem of the rose, on
which you will have purposefully left bits of the small branches. Put
your petal or rose as low as you can in your mould, because sand 
will always bring it up or raise it. You can also mould several petals
together, arranged one on top of the other, separating them some thread.
And for the look of the rose you can give a thin layer of melted
butter  on the back of the petals, but only on the outside petals,
not the inside petals, to stiffen them and give them the strength to
withstand, so that the wet sand does not stretch or spread them out more
than necessary. You can also mold well the leaves of a rosebush,
strawberry plant and similar things, that are flat and can be flattened
without being spoiled. For two castings, to open your mould, when it has
been reheated and then clean the ashes out, make some vents, and you
will be able to do  several casts. This is the easiest way and you
can also do the other. And with little veins of wax  that has been
adapted and joined from leaf to leaf, you can make casts. You can even
make a little vein of wax  from the back of the first petal, which
will join up with the main cast. All of this will facilitate the casting
process. The main thing is to let your reheated moulds cool down rather
than cleaning them and blowing inside them to make the wax come out,
because when the mold is hot, the ash almost attaches itself to it. But
when it is cold it, it detaches and leaves with air draft or when one
draw in one's breath through the small opening. 
 
You can also give a little thickness at the ends of the stems that are
holding up the petals, by lightly oiling them underneath with melted
butter , because the petals are big and weigh heavily, and the stem
made of lead  or tin  will not have enough strength to
hold it .

I would be of the opinion to mold the rose on its own with a bit of its
stem close to its bud, and then to join the rose to a longer one a
stem  made of glazed brass , because the rose bloom is very big
and heavy.

Moisten your rose with spirits  before placing it in the clay. Do
not forget to oil the wax  cast. And when you have thrown in your
wet sand , blow heavily, until it begins to set. The rose came out
well. But because the sand  was mixed within the petals, soak your
work in water for a long time so that when you shake it in the water,
the earth comes off.

 155v
Rose
Because the rose bloom is rather wavy, and its petals are all mixed
up and arranged in various ways, it will not be beautiful if it is not
painted, and you must also consider that its weight cannot supported by
the tin  stem which is sour and fine. One moulds the flower of the
rose in a separate mould, casting it thickly so that it comes out more
easily. Then one cuts the cast at the edges of the stem of the bud, in
which you graft and solder a stalk of brass wire to which you also
solder the leaves. But because this tin , being so thin, is hard
to solder, and may melt some of the leaves and also the cast flowers;
you should consider  that cast flowers, especially roses, are not
beautiful without being painted, so one does not make the effort to
solder them, but instead  one grafts the pieces that you want to
join together and glues them with fish glue  that has been a
little moistened and melted until thick. And so that it takes better,
you heat the work in tin  lightly and for a long time, because if
it is cold, the glue  will not take. Once your flower is thusly
repaired, you follow the joints of the added parts with some
esbaucher wax , which is a white wax  mixed with much
well-ground ceruse,  or even better, white lead,  melting it
and placing it on your work with a small warm bit of iron  needle.
In the same way you can repair the little filaments that are in the
middle of the rose, or the holes that may appear in some of the petals.
Then paint your rose realistically. If you cast your rose in gold 
or silver , you can also rejoin parts  and solder its. And
in those materials, when you have join something very delicate together
with the flower, such as a fly or other similar things, fish glue 
is excellent, and holds very well, fixing it with a few little needles
that act as nails. The leaves and buds can be cast in two molds that can
be opened once they have been reheated, but not before. Then these
things join up with the flower .

 156r
Quickly molding and reducing a relief to a hollow
mold 
Make an impression in colored wax of the relief of your medal. And
you will get a hollow mold, in which you can cast en noyau a relief in
sand. In this, you will cast your hollow in lead or tin. In this, you
you will cast your wax relief. And then on this wax , you will
make your hollow moule en noyau, in order to cast in it the relief in
gold  or silver  or any other metal you would like. But to
make this process go faster, if you are in a hurry, make the first
impression and the first hollow out of the inside portion of the
bread  loaf, prepared as you know, and which will cast neatly. And
inside this, cast in the melted wax  which will give you a nice
relief on which you can make your noyau.

Work of gold , very light and hollow
Cast a lizard or any medal you would like in silver , of low
quality, then gild it lightly and once the first gilding is done and
dried up in the fire, burnish it, brush it with a wirebrush. Apply
another layer of light gilding, repeating the whole process. Do this
three or four times or even more depending on how thick you want your
gold  to be. Then, in the most discrete place you can find, make a
small opening, and submerge your entire work in some good aqua
fortis,  which will penetrate into the silver  through the
opening and will corrode the silver  without damaging the
gold . In this way, you will have a lizard that is hollow until
the tip of its nails or any type of work that is so light that when you
blow into it, it moves. But be advised not to apply a thick layer of
amalgamated gold  in one go, or apply layers that are too thin
each time, because this will block the finer details, but if you proceed
as I have said, i.e.  lightly and in many goes, and cleaning it
well, then you will be fine.

If you want the aqua fortis to corrode well, you must cast in low
quality silver.

Chiseling
Lead  is so fat and soft that one cannot hammer it harshly,
one should have a light touch. Other big metals are easier to work with.
With a graver called an onglete, you make and retool the finest of
details. With the ordinary graver, you make the larger ones, and with
the chaple, you can remove the bits that have run, and with the … 
soften …  some lines you flatten or raise the lines.

 156v
Moulding a fly
Take the fattest flies, that go to pantries, which are not hairy, if
at all possible. If they are hairy, oil lightly their fur and their
unmanageable hairs with olive oil to make them lie flat. Take them also
and use them as quickly as you can after they have died, because it you
leave them to dry out, their legs will break when you want to stretch
them. You must also, to get a better cast, arrange them on some kind of
leaf or other similar thing. This will help to cast their little legs,
that are so fragile that unaided, they will not cast easily. They can be
arranged on a sage leaf or something similar. They cast well in gold or
silver but one usually the legs and wings separately and then join them
to the main body.  I have cast one on a bouquet of sage that had
seven or eight leaves. And to arrange it, I affixed the legs on the
largest leaf with a bit of melted wax and joined them with the pointed
tip of a hot iron wire. And to make sure that the wings will
eventually  join more easily to the body , I applied on the
underside some melted butter with a small brush. And with same pointed
end of a warm iron wire I applied wheatgerm oil on the legs and feet. To
tame and bed the downy hair that it has I also apply a bit of olive oil.

I do not let wheatgerm oil dry out a lot because it is very thick
and has body, and the spirits cannot penetrate it.
For applications, tallow is too harsh, pork fat is too soft, and but
is excellent because it is rather dry and curdles and instantly melts
and is firmer. Be advised that the legs and feet are well set on the
leaf, and not go beyond the leaf, because the whatever exceeds the leaf
will not cast as well, even if cast in silver, because these parts are
so fine that they will not cast. And truthfully, feet set on a leaf,
cast well, but those set from leaf to leaf which remain iffy did not
come out well in tin. The rest of the fly was cast, and likewise the
sage bouquet which cast very beautifully.

You could also cast them well in gold or silver without the feet, and
without attaching to a flower by casting it underneath the belly and
then joining the feet with soldering. And if you need to, cast the wings
in the same metal and it could be enameled if you fortify the wings and
feet as previously said.

If your sage leaf or your branch needs to be repaired, do as I have said
below. And then paint in a realistic way.

 

Having been cast in gold, one enamels the wings with window glass from
Lorraine, which is and transparent.

It is necessary to cast the fly from the ass with some melted wax,
fitted by an iron tip, as you know, to which the fly attaches itself,
and then the wax, as it melts, serves as a cast for the fly.

 + 

If it happens that you have some defects with your fly's wings, hammer
some very fine tin, or gold or silver, if you cast it, and shape with
scissors the amount you need for your wings. And then apply it with
tweezers and glue it with fish glue, applied like it is shown below. And
before doing thing this heat your work lightly so that its coldness does
not repel the glue, which will dry quickly, heating it from afar. Then
cover lightly the joints of whatever you've attached to the cast with
some esbaucher wax, which is a white wax that is mixed with a lot of
ceruse or white lead, melting it with a warm iron point. You will also
cut little bits of harpsicord string and will glue them with the
aforementioned glue when they are dry. It is to know, the feet, having
been reworked thusly, you will make them bigger with this same melted
wax so that they are equal in proportion with the rest .

 157r
The mode in which goldsmiths  mold hollow molds


They mold their animal, or another solid work that they have already
made or rough-hewn in wax  and cast in lead , in two
cuttlefish bones. When it is good and impressed in the two cuttlefish
bones, they put a piece of paper  between the two bones & join
the bones and cast. The work comes in parts by halves. And then with a
chaple they excavate the two half castings of gold  or
silver  as subtly as they like, and then they solder or braze
them.

Rouge cler  


Some goldsmiths  assay it on thinly beaten
esp   gold  & that is well burnished 
with a chaple  . But it is better to assay it on a
gold ingot . And also assay your substances in large or
fantastical work, since if they appear good & extraordinary in large
work, they will show excellently on a common work.

Flies 
They mold better on a single leaf than on a bouquet or a flower or
the branch of an herb, since the single leaf is molded in two halves
that being reheated can be opened up and cleaned well, & the cast
will be better. In picking up the fly, take heed that you do not break
its legs or let it dry out too much, because then the legs will fall
off. And if this happens to you, glue the same legs back on with fish
glue  and wax , or adapt the hairs of a pig  or the
cords of a spinet . Fix the leaf on a flat piece of clay 
with two pins, and the fly with one pin in the middle of its body &
the feet with wax.

Cleaning and degreasing your cast tin  works, and
others
Make some lye passed through scrupulously with good ashes ,
and it should be new & without any fat; boil your molded work in it.
And the tallow and fat will leave.

Arranging an herb or flower to cast


Always put the front side of the thing on the upper side because it will
come out better and neater than the lower side. Make the casting large
& prepare the supraplus, which is the mass, after the
founders  of large castings, even for silver , which
needs a very hot mold & is cast very hot. Very fine thing must be
cast very hot.


When you know that the stem of a flower burned in a mold that will not
open at all is totally reduced to ashes, this is the sign that
everything else is well-burned.

 157v
Ashes in the moulds
You must let the mold cool down rather than blow into it to try to
get the ashes out. Because when the mold is hot, the ashes stick to it,
and when it cold, they separate from it more easily, and will exit by
blowing with le vent a vapeur.

Moulding a bird 
You must give it its pose. And to do so, place it on its side on a
clay  base and hide it in the aforesaid clay  base and sink
half the aforesaid bird  in it, so that it is only showing one
leg and foot, then you will apply butter  to keep the feathers
down and then apply some spirits . Then cast it. And having taken
hold, clean and uncover what needs to be uncovered. Because the feet are
made of bones which are hard to burn, and which will not be able to be
cleaned neither with quicksilver , nor by any other means, if the
mold does not open, uncover the bottom of the foot and the toe, or the
nail of the claw, and mold it with a separate piece. Make a
second cooking and open your mold and clean the bones. Feet generally
remain too  weak to support the a heavy bird . Because
of this one adapts an iron  thread in the foot mold which goes
through the body before you cast. In this way they are reinforced. Some
mold the wings in a frame. Some mold the head and the aforesaid wings
separately en noyau, then reattach and repair them to start shaping
the bird  , which will firstly have a rigid shape and
support the tempered sand.
They are skinned and filled with
cotton cloth . And for the best result, you must prepare it in the
way that leather-workers  do, so that they do not lose their
comely feathers. The preparation is made of alum  and flour
paste .

Pour  fair e h…  vin f… rs
? 
Prenez un chausson du pied droid t  qui ait este porte et
le faictes


tremper en eau  et de leau  qu i en sortira la
fair e boyre au mesme


ou autre et ver rez merveilles

 158r
Mercury  in molds, for cleaning


Take heed that your mold be quite cold when you blow in order to get the
ashes  out. And afterwards put in ☿  in order to finish the
cleaning. Because if the mold is hot, the ☿  will go inside &
seek out the conduits in escaping, & will leave its own odor, which
will aggravate the tin  or other metal  that you will cast,
such that it will break in touching the mold at all. The heat of the
mold also retains some little grains of ☿  that will make lumps
& stick to the sides of the molded leaves and attach to them &
make them frangible. The ☿  cleans ashes well. Likewise flat
things where there are not delicate traces that it could break with its
weight. And therefore, if you can cast neatly without putting it in,
don't use it at all. But if you have need of it, mix your crocum
sand  so that it withstands fire well. And after having put in the
☿ , evacuate it, bouncing the end of the mold from below while
moving it. Afterwards reheat your mold gently so that the ☿  is
gone from everywhere. In this way I cast a branch of periwinkle leaves
& flowers very neatly. Having put a branch of melted   in the
flower, on the back of the flower  .


Reheat your mold until it is good and red before casting, so that the
☿  evaporates well.

 158v
Colors for green leaves
One usually paints them in oil , because distemper 
colors have no hold. For marigold flowers , lightly ground
minium  for some, & for others which are more yellowish, a bit of
massicot  with it. For green, the verdigris  has depth &
is too dark. If it is a yellowish green, you can mix with the
verdigris  a little yellow ochre  & stil de grain
yellow . If the green is dark, put with it charcoal of peach
tree  pits , which makes a v  greenish black, in the
same way that black of ox  foot bone  looks bluish. And
thus, by judgement & discretion, put the color on the natural
flower or leaf  to see whether it comes close. But layer it
transparently so as not to cover the lines of the work.

Large molds
Because of the heaviness of the metal, it is necessary to put them
in a press so that they do not open.

Candle smoke
It allows the piece to be taken out more easily, and even if it is
slightly thick, it does not stick because it has no substance. I have
perfumed my core molds this way for tin and lead, and I have casted in a
cold mold, but drying it well beforehand, and the piece came out quite
cleanly. It is true that lead mixed with half the quantity of tin,
because the medal was very thick, was very hot.

Casts
If the medal is very thick, do not pour a cast that is as thick; the
cast just needs to be half as thick as the medal. But if it is thin,
make a cast that is of the same thickness. Do not forget to make vents
in the cast or the whole matter will fill with bubbles.


Never forget to oil the cast with wax when you cast herbs or flowers,
otherwise it will break and cannot be taken out.



 159r


Portraits in Wax 


If you do not mix your wax  with any color dye , and if you
paint some colors on the wax , these colors would fade if you cast
it en noyau. But the representation is not damaged, rub it very lightly
with spirits diluted with hot water . If your representations are
varnished, repeat the molding process two or three times in order to
remove this varnish  which sticks to the mold. When the
varnish  is removed, your mold is very clean. If your
representation is set on wood , it is necessary to pour very hot
melted wax  on the wood,  otherwise the mold sticks to the
wood . It is much better to mix your white wax  with
white lead  than ceruse , because white lead  is
whiter and more firm.



Chasing tool


If a chasing tool has passed through any part of the representation, it
is necessary to rework the whole thing and follow it all again.
Otherwise it would look like an additional piece.

Fish glue 


Beat it very finely and thinly on a well-cleaned anvil, then dilute your
glue  with spirits , put the mixture on hot ashes ,
and on a low fire, it will melt very soon. If the glue  is not
strong and thick enough, add spirits  in greater quantity. Do not
melt it in a fatty pot , but in a new pot  if possible. It
melts on fire and dries very quickly on fire. When your glue  sets
on the work, heat it away from fire, it will stick very strongly. One
reworks flowers and delicate things made from silver ,
gold , tin  and other metal  with this glue 
which will not spoil your work.

Tin  and lead 


They must be beaten out very finely and tin  will not get brittle
or break, lead  is a bit fatter. But that is why it is necessary
to reheat it under hot ashes, and to beat several leaves together.

 159v
 Cleaning files
Sometimes they get fat from the grease of lead , which is
naturally fat, or also filings corrode them. And you will be able to
clean them with hot charcoal  or a wire brush made from
brass. 

Carnation
Mold a carnation like a rose, marigold, and all other flowers as
discussed, that is to say cast the flowers in one mold, and the leaves
in two parts in order to solder them onto the flower, this is the better
way. But you could mold the flower and the leaves together in one single
closed mold. I tried one which came out well from the mold. But the
sand  must be very thin, and you must blow very strongly.
 
Molds
Try to make one side as thick as the other, that way the two parts
will be equally reheated. You can open this kind of mold in order to
clean it, when you mold some animals, like crayfish, which burn. When
your mold is reheated, do not wait too long before casting again,
because it gets damp and loses its strength.

Unmixed plaster 
If you reheat plaster  as a stone it would crumble into
water , but if you grind it before reheating it, it will not
crumble into water , on the contrary it will harden in water, if
it is good plaster like the one from Paris or from Spain which is as
hard as a stone, and which is found through poor and dry earths, and
which looks like white salt . German people use this
plaster  to make statues for their fountains, even if the statues
are varnished they will not be damaged with water . On the
contrary harden this plaster with water . When this sand  is
unmixed it sets much sooner. Oil very lightly your shapes of metal or of
other materials otherwise you will not be able to strip plaster 
from the mold. And dip your mold into hot water  in order to open
it, if it does not open in hot water , it could open into boiling
water .

It is sometimes even necessary to boil the mold in hot water ,
as you would with wax  if you were afraid it would not strip well.

Cold water draws oil out to the surface of the plaster that has sucked
it in and thus it strips.

 160r
Presses for large moulds
  It is made of two sheets of iron, fasten with four small iron
pillars, in such a way that the upper sheet is able to move and run
freely along the pillars, while the lower one is fixed. A St André
cross, made of iron, stops at the end of the pillars; there is a screw
in the middle of the cross, which squeezes the sheets against the molds
placed between them.

For small molds, we make a frame; having put the mold between two metal
sheets, we squeeze it in the frame with for small moulds, put the mould
between two iron sheets, and squeeze it with wedges.

Big wooden presses, with a screw, apart from being heavy to move to the
furnace for casting, make it difficult to see when they squeeze too
much, and they often break the molds.
The screw is fixed to these nuts which are nailed down the upper
plate, this way it raises and presses the mould.

Sand  to cast flowers 
In casting with thick sand , flowers  crumple; it
squeezes them into a mass. For this reason, be sure to dilute your
sand  very thinly, and blow on it so the flowers  are not
entirely covered. When you dilute your sand , do not only stir it
with the small shovel, but beat it as you would egg white. 

 160v
Moulding a foot or a hand
Mix resin  to the wax . Once well blended, soften the
mixture in hot water  or urine . Then press the foot or
the hand  in the mixture in order to get an impress, then pour
plaster;  the cast will which will be clean and come off
easily.

Fine work made of gold  or silver 
You can mold flies by hand,without casting; the wings and the feet
can be soldered, which you could not do with fine works of lead 
or tin , because they would melt. You can enamel the work made of
gold .

Catching crayfishes
On the end of a stick, attach pieces of liver or lung, from beef or
mutton. Then hang a basket to the stick with a little string. Put the
basket into water where crayfishes eat; they will soon aggregate on the
flesh. Pull very gently your stick out of the water; the crayfishes
which will try to return to the water will fall into the basket.

Catching passerines
If they sleep in the farmyard, like they commonly do, close to the
house, let the closest window open, and put a lighted candle close to
the window. The candle itself must be hidden, only its glimmer must be
seen through the room and through the window; all the passerines will
then lock themselves into the room. But the night must be very dark,
without any moonlight.

Catching birds
During winter, when birds have molted, skin them and fill them with
cloth and stuffing, or dry them well in an oven. Then arrange your birds
on trees, have some look like they are  singing, look like they
have assembled  and are numerous.
the oven must not be too hot. This method  is good in the
summer, because flies would set into the eyes and make works before they
birds  could dry. You can work on the birds more easily in the
winter, because they dry by themselves.

 161r
Preparing sand  for box molds
After your sand which is made  of gip de
lateribus  and alumen jameni  is moulded as a core, gather the
left-over pieces of your mould, and break them up on a long table with a
big metal block until they are very well crushed. And for an even better
result, sieve them neatly. Place them in the oven pots of
tile-makers,  in a bread oven, firing them  several
times, when it is well heated so that they become very red. When cooled
down, rebreak them if you need to and sieve them. After, put them in a
vaisse, a semal or a vessel that is appropriate and clean. And then wet
it with clear water.  And crush it and mix it with a big stick
until it is very well-moistened and rinsed, and the dirty parts rise to
the surface of the water. Keep stirring in this way the dulled
gip , that one prepares to gilt burnished gold  over five or
six days, until it is in no way lumpy. And each time your stir it, leave
it to rest and cull the clear water  that will be on the top by
tipping the pot, or with a porringer, or with a sponge. And put in some
new clean water  and in this way wash and stir until it is refined
and purged of all filth. Then leave to drain a little bit and to dry and
make of it some balls, soaked in sal ammoniac . Having been thus
dried, put them to be recooked in very high heat in a reverberatory
furnace for a good amount of time, where they will become very red.
Having been recooked in this way, crush them and try to mold something
in a box mold, having moistened your crushed powder with water of sal
ammoniac . And reheat and redden you box mold, and if your
sand  comes away, then you must crush it again and moisten it
again with water of sal ammoniac . Remold it in two balls and
recook it and redden it and continue this for as many times as necessary
until it does not come away from the box mold when the box mold is
reddened. The main thing is for it to be well recooked, because
otherwise the sal ammoniac  will not calcinate well and will make
the sand  coarse. And for this reason, you should not put in too
much sal ammoniac .
#  Note that before drying it, you must first wet the
whole thing and empty the liquid in another ordinary vessel, taking out
the litharge , so that the stones  and the earth 
remain at the bottom afterwards. You must leave it to rest and then
empty the water  by tipping it, and then leave it.

nota

 161v
Crocum ferri 
It can be made quickly if you put filings, well cleaned and washed
in an iron  drum to the height of two fingers, and cover it, and
redden in a reverberatory furnace, having washed it in good
vinegar  for a whole day. And it will be very well burnt and
clean, mixed and crushed on a marble  slab. Having been well
crushed and when well mixed, the vinegar  will corrode it easily
and will redden it quickly and bind it. Wet it with the strongest one
you can find and burn it after. And after three or four wettings and
burnings it will be ready. This one will be the color of columbine and
is considered firmer for casting than the one that is redder and more
beautiful in color, done with rusty filings and has more color in it.
Some burn the filings many times on a shovel of red iron ,
watering each time with vinegar .

 162r
For La Boutique


According to Herodotus the Portuguese did not invent deep sea 
navigation as they put about. At the beginning of the first book
entitled Clio, he says that the Phoenicians used to come navigating
straight across from the Red Sea to the Greek coast, mainly to Argos,
where they would bring merchandise from Egypt and Assyria, which they
usually sold out within 6 days.


Navigation, commerce


Herodotus, page 1 of Clio, says that the Greeks traveled in a long ship
to the coast of Colchis and to the River Phasis, where they carried off
Medea.

Galleys.


Herodotus, page 3, says that Gyges offered to the temple of Delphi
pateras aureas sex pondo 30 talentorum.


Gold vases


Halyattes, the father of Cresus, pateram ex ferro compactilem apud
Delphos dedicavit spectatu dignam inter omnia quae sunt Delphis donaria,
opus Glauci Chii qui solus omnium compactionem ferri excogitavit.
Compactile ferrum means made by assembling separate parts.


Iron vase assembled and soldered
 As small peddlers lay open small wares in order to buy more precious
ones & to make more and more profits, I also, from a desire to
learn, am laying open the little that is in my boutique  in
order to have through  receive through a common commerce
des lettres  much rarer secrets from my benevolent readers.



Aes ustum 


When it is finely ground it moulds very cleanly. It has a certain
fatness that makes it bind better than filings, I believe that it may
not be ill suited for casting.



Rotten wood


Wood that is white, being light as a sponge, if burnt in a close fire,
may be used for casting lead in a box and molds very cleanly, but these
things such material  do not withstand open?  fire. 

 162v
Peach tree
Because they sprout & flower among the first, & thus are
caught by the frost, one extracts them during winter in order that the
cold slows them, and that blossoming later, the flowers come to
profit.

Olive trees
In Spain , one extracts them during winter & in summer
one plants them well with earth.

Foot of bittern 
To mold it it is better to extend its fingers and nails on something
flat and let them dry this way for a few days, because in drying the
scales will be rougher and the nerves and and tendons will be more
apparent, and so the molded foot will be more artistic.

Molds of things which have not been


pelted
Animals who have not been skinned can only be molded in a double
mold, which can only be opened after they have been refired and after
the enclosed animal is completely burnt. Animals with bones or scales
which are not reducible to powder thus remain in calcined pieces which
will never removed from the cast, however much bellowing or whatever
amount of quicksilver is put in, or by using a feather pipe while
molding to make a gate. This is why you mold in two halves: so that once
the mold is opened after having been refired, the thing you've burnt can
be cleaned out. But I advise letting it cool so that in taking off the
clamps (being hot) nothing cracks while it is still fragile. While it is
hot the crust and cinders which it leaves and which stick to the mold
can be more easily removed when it is cold. Also note that on the side
of the lower mold when you reheat the animal, which in boiling leaves a
crust, in this case, always mark on the mold where the back of the
animal is so that in reheating it is to the top and above and will by
this method stay cleaner.

 163r
Perfume-makers 
They readily make their perfumes with half amber  and half
musk , and a little civet , because the scent of
amber  is stronger than the scent of musk .
To save using amber , perfume-makers  readily add
add a small quantity of musk  to the white layers, in order to get
a stronger scent. But to remove or hide the blackness of musk ,
they add a bit of starch  from England , which is
perfectly white.
To give off a scent of white amber , in the same way that the
Portuguese  do, take a chunk of amber  that you have
broken up into pieces. Having put in a small silver  porringer a
spoon of flower oil , should you not have some, linseed
oil . That is to say, use the type of silver  spoon one might
use at the table. Pour into this your ambergris , then place it on
a low fire, it will melt quickly if your amber  is of good
quality, and there will be no lumps. Having melted it all, put in a
small bit of civet , and melt it all and blend it well together.
Then take your gloves which you have cleaned and dried properly, and
lightly dip the edge of your finger around the edge of the oil ,
with patience slowly spread the oil  along the glove, and rub the
glove between your hands and trace along the fingers and its stitches,
one after the other. Leave it to dry. Then repeat the previous procedure
until you have used up all of the amber .

Spirits 
Spirits  are excellent for making molds clean, in such a way
that where you do not apply some, common sand will attack the figure.
But it needs to be passed three times. And because it does not take well
on oiled things, I believe it may be best to put some into the
water  with which you have moistened your sand.

 163v
Crayfish 
The hairy little horns that it the crayfish   has
under its snout tend to come out lumpy and unclear because, after they
are burnt, it is difficult to remove and clean away their ash, which,
staying in the mold, prevents the metal  from running well. And
for this reason, one makes a small gate of wax  thread at the tips
of them, in order both to hold them up and to blow away the cumbersome
ashes from inside.
Do not spare any pins, placing them not
only in the middle of the body, but also on the big legs, and two or
three on the tail, according to the positioning that you want to give
it.

Crocum 
That which has become rusty by itself, having been doused with
water , salt , and either vinegar  or urine ,
and then well-dried and reddened by heating, is deep red when crushed on
porphyry  and is of the color of bol de levant , almost like
minium . But that which is doused with urine  and dried
acquires a deeper color and almost like crushed aes ustum  or like
vermillion . But the first one, finely crushed, acquires a bright
red color like cinnabar  when placed in spirits . And the
one and the other, when prepared as said above, finely ground and made
very hot, produce a red smoke like an acid vapor if, being thus hot and
fine, one throws vinegar , urine  or spirits  on top.
The urine  makes a lot of color and the spirits  as
well.
 
Repairing
It is much better to only lightly repair your work with a burin
called an onglet  or the one called chaple  or with a
small file. Above all, avoid touching your work, but touch only the burr
or lumpy parts that will have occurred during the casting. While
reworking, moisten and rub your work with a small bristle 
brush.

 164r
Casting


When you make a cast of delicate animals, like snakes , start by
casting the belly side, or the under-tail, for this side has straighter
lines which are easier to rework than the back side, which is more
veined and is more marked.

Repairing burrs


Remove burrs very carefully with the point of a chaple or a burin, then
scrape the burrs with the side of a burin, or carefully with a small
file, and rub with willow coals  and small brushes. Continue,
also, with the lines not interrupted by burrs.

Leaded silver 


A lot of silver   is wasted because of the lead 
which is mixed with it, as occurs in cupellation, and makes it leap in
small bits onto the edges of the crucible and onto the charcoal 
which covers it and is also gross. And by this means, it is good to melt
silver coins , like reals and others, and make them into ingots
prior to casting lizards  or animals , for it comes out
better. I cleanly molded a small, silver viper , like in
the first recipe above . And at the end of the line of 4
reals  (of 20 S of Spain ), and one coin  of 20 S
from France .

Blowing


When you smelt silver  and gold  do not blow too hard or
with force, because the charcoal  will become spent and the
crucible will sink and, potentially, spill over. But when your mold is
ready, blow strongly in order to properly heat the silver  or
gold . When all are melted it is necessary to blow over the top
with a small bellows, doing the same for gold , for it removes and
reduces the smoke.

 164v
Molds


For molds wherein something must be burned (away), and do not open
before being reheated: do not cast before refiring/reheating. For large
molds that produce large and wide casts, it is necessary to score it
with strong notches so that the pitch  of the metal does not run
as forcefully. These will not make many burrs if they are pressed. Prior
to doing so, place between the mold and the press pieces of thick
felt for mittens , which will fill the cavities and protect the
mold from cracking. The clamps should be placed prior to heating or
drying.


When the ground from which you are making your earthen base to lay out
your animal  is too soft, the pins you place come out easily when
you cast the sand and so the mold is spoilt and the design is defeated.
Therefore when you know that your slab is too tender and soft, spread
some hot cinders over it and blow with the bellows.

Sable


If you don't add enough alum de plume  or crocus your
mold  will easily crack when heated. But if your sand  is
mixed as it ought to be, the mold  will sustain itself. You'll
know it's of good quality when, while still hot after casting, it
immoderately soaks up the water  when dipped and breaks easily,
because the alum  and the crocus  render it spongy. To the
contrary, bad sand, which is composed of plaster  and brick 
and is not well mixed with alum , breaks easily in fire and
hardens in water . If possible, cast all at once.

Molds


When you cast lead , your molds must be very dry, even if the
molds are large. The outside of the molds must be reddened, and it is
necessary to keep them in continuous heat until they do not smoke
anymore inside. Do not reheat your molds several times, but continue
when you have begun and do not let them cool in the cold because they
will crack. Let them cool near the fire. When your molds are still as
warm as above, remark, you can put your finger into the casting gate
without burning your skin. If your mold is large, it takes more time to
cure and to dry, and you must also cast warmer.

 165r
To repair
If in your cast, there appear some little hole, fix it with black or
gray filling gum wax .

Lake 
If, once it is ground, you let it dry without keeping it in
water , it will dry out & you will have as much trouble
grinding it as before. La   

Stretching a canvas  portrait
If it is crumpled & creased from being rolled up, moisten it
from behind with a wet sponge  & you will stretch it very
evenly without spoiling it.

Plaster  for molding
When it is long to set and dry, it means that it is too fat and
moist, which is what makes it shrink away from the fire and crack.
This is  where burrs come from. The one that comes from lean
earth  is better. You must not store your moulds made of fat
plaster  for a long time, because they resemble fat earth ,
which when drying, cracks. The best is to reheat them soon after they
have been made and cast. Moulds made of good plaster  can be
stored a long time.


It is necessary to oil it well, because it is more difficult to
separate the two halves of these moulds than when it is mixed.

Dragon 's blood 
It is imitated with lake  that surpasses it in beauty if, with
this distempered in oil , you glaze on gold  or
silver . Distempered in varnish , it dies.

Repairing snakes  and lizards 
You could make some marks according to the form of their scales,
making some bigger ones and some smaller ones, according to the shape of
the neck, the body and the tail. If there is something broken, you can
attach it with small iron  or steel  nails, and glue it with
some mouth glue , then cover the whole thing with gray or black
wax . But it is necessary to let the glue  dry for one day
without touching it.

 165v
Positioning animals
Not only with iron pins, but also with melted wax, are animals
secured to the plate of earth. Wash them first in clear water, after
they have died in the mixture of vinegar and urine. And with a sponge
clean off their mouth, eyes and head of the froth coming out, because
the sand would never set well there and would become lumpy.

If you want to keep their mouths open, insert a little bit of
harpsichord string, which will not take up much space.

Keeping animals
Having molded them once, if you want to keep them for molding again,
put them back into the mixture of urine, vinegar and spirits where you
killed the others, and they will keep for a long time without decaying.
If you have a cut on your hand, take care that this mixture does not
touch it.

Molds
After molding them do not keep them for long, but use them as soon
as you can, because when kept for a long time, they are prone to
spoiling.
When your molds are reheated, the thing comes out better.

Lute
When reheating, you might as well use common lute, But when you want
to cast, strip it from the mold and, using a brush, quickly apply a
layer of plaster lute that has been used for molds, because it will be
dry as soon as it settles, and cast. This lute should be mainly placed
on the joints.

Silver
When it quivers after melting, that is a sign that it is very hot.
And since it commonly contains much lead, it is good to throw in some
lime mortar because that attracts and gathers in the lead.

Fly wings
So that they come out best, place wax sprues from the gate up to the
tips of the wings. Also make sure there is enough wax under the belly,
because that is what makes the cast succeed.
 
Attaching a fly wing or something similar
They can be attached with fish glue mixed with spirits over slow
heat, heating also the work. Then that is covered with wax à
ébaucher , that should be grey.

 166r
For The Workshop


If anything has been omitted: the harvester is not blamed for leaving
some corn ears.

If some craftsmen complain that their craft secrets are being
discovered, as the goddesses of Eleusis complained to N. the Pythagorean
that their mysteries were disclosed, excuse yourself in the words of the
ancient Hebrews quoted by Josephus.


As a hen will carefully search the rubbish thrown out of a house for a
crumb or a seed to distribute to her chicks, so will the orphans receive
whatever has been discovered in those arts that are considered vile and
despicable.


Tablet of Cebes: idle. But The Workshop represents all things active.



If the jealous will disapprove picking up these things and taking them
from others, reply that since Nullum est jam dictum quod non dictum aut
factum sit prius and it is commonly believed that all arts were invented
within a thousand years, do not imagine you could invent anything new
but rather rediscover the long-buried, unknown and forgotten books of
Numa in order to reveal them to those who are ignorant of them; and
that, just as the day before teaches the day after, you also needed to
learn from those before you in order to teach those after you. The
Latins learnt from the Greeks, as Cicero did from Plato and Virgil from
Homer (Aulus Gellius). Valerius Maximus only reawakened various authors
who had written previously, and Livy's 23rd book revived  the 2nd
or 3rd book of Polybius. Among the Egyptians, Serapis was deemed the
inventor of agriculture, but among the Sicilians, it was Ceres.
Pythagoras and others from Tyana learnt during their travels those
disciplines which, back in their countries, they claimed to have
invented. Does one not call a weaver the maker of his precious cloth or
fabric, even though he did not himself dye and twine the yarn  nor
wind and prepare the reels and balls of thread? Is a mason not the
builder of the house, for picking up ready-made stones? Apollo a Chirone
medicari didicit & tamen deus medicinae habitus. Homerus Orphei
poema imitatus est, nam cum Orpheus sic prius exorsus esset, 'Iram cane
dea Cereris frugiferentis', ita reddit Homerus, 'Iram cane dea Pelidae
Achillis'. In Justin Martyr, towards the beginning.



 166v
In addition to Greek examples, there is a psalm of David mentioned
by Saint Athanasius in the Synopsis. It begins Parvus eram and in the
second verse the royal prophet says, Manus meae fecerunt organum et
digiti mei aptarunt psalterium.

Keeping chestnuts 
One needs to leave them in their bristled shells until one wants to
eat them. And with this, leave them in a humid place or the gutter of
some roof.

Scented candle  from Le Mans 
They melt in with wax  and candles rosin  that is
called in France rosin  from Burgundy , which is
white and not as rough or dry as the other rosin . They also
perfume the wick and the end of the wick.

Softening gold 
Dissolve some caput mortuum  in distilled vinegar .
Filter and congeal in salt and cement the ☉   with
this, and it will soften wonderfully.

Improve the color of gold 
Put aqua fortis of vitriol  on hot ashes. Cover the
bottle , that is, the mouth, with a tile , then unstop
it & a thick smoke  will come out; put the gold  on this
and it will take on a high color.

 167r
Mortars
 Mortars are made of the best alloy of métal   and the
finest possible rosette   so that they do not burst, that
is to say one part métal   and two parts  fine
rosette  or old caudron, which is even better. Some of them are of
fifteen or seventeen lb. and are loaded with two and a half lb. of
grain powder , and they are put on common windows and doors.
Others are of a weight of 25 to 27 lb. and are loaded with eight lb. of
powder. And in such a way, they are made according to the stress they
have to resist. On the outside, they are all the same shape, but in the
inside, they are made like a crucible,   narrower on the inside of the bottom and getting wider towards
the mouth. And this is to reinforce the bottom, given the quantity of
powder they hold, and so that they do not burst. Those of 4 s. lb. are
eight lignes  thick at the bottom, and get thinner in the inside
towards the opening, which is of 4 lignes . They have xiii
poulsses  long and seven in diameter at the mouth and
opening.
 
 167v
 

The ones weighing about 27 lb. are ix pousses long and the mouth is 6
pousses  in diameter. At their bottom, they are 6 lignes thick,
and 3 for the mouth. The ones weighing 17 lb are 8 poulsses long and the
mouth is five poulsses . They are all covered together, all the
forks, rods, and tools which one uses, with a big canvas or big cloth so
that they do not make any noise. It is good that they sit loaded for a
while. After the powder  has been put in, it is grinded very hard
and then tightly pressed paper  is put in, then a cake of well
pressed wax  and, on the wax , another slab of cork 
that fits in very snugly and that you have to force in. In this way, the
powder  remains well packed and gives much greater force, and if
you wish, you can put on the cork  slab one of wood pierced in the
middle, if the mortar has a pierced bottom, which is believed to be the
easiest and which makes a greater hole because it cannot recoil. And for
these that have a pierced bottom, one must have a good gimlet to first
make the hole so that the rod, which is made by the point of the gimlet,
has before and without noise attached the mortar. And for these, one
must cover the button, which is quite sharply filed, with waxed
canvas , or add wax  to it so that it completely plugs the hole
in the bottom. But because the doors are sometimes iron and the iron
rods cannot pierce it, an iron fork made like pincers and another iron
stick made with three claws, like you see painted, are use. And in this
way, the mortar stays in place well and is immediately steadied. The
iron rods must come out of the mortar from every point made by the
gimlet, namely by three or 4 finger lengths, which all enter in the
door. When the mortars are placed, the touch-hole is filled with good
powder  and inserted in it is a feather shaft  filled with
tightly pressed powder  and moistened with vinegar , or if
needed, the powder is firmly pressed with the palms of the hands and,
having wet it with some saliva , you shape it like a cocoon
or
 
 168r
  rod that we put into the touch-hole, and then, with a rope wrapped
around the end of a baston, we ignite it and promptly retreat to take
cover. The small mortars of 16 or 17 lb. are attached promptly with a
short, hooked rod made like a wimble, and if it is of a good alloy, we
can ignite it by hand. It is done in this way for mortars of 27 lb., but
then we only put three lb. of powder. The door really needs to be strong
so as not to be blown off for seventeenth lb. mortars. Some people use
little bells worn by oxen or mules as an door for the mortars. Others
load two canons of guns and, with a gimlet and a string, tie them with
the opening against the door. If the mortars are good and do not
explode, they only recoil and cannot harm if one is next to them.
A is a small rod, hooked like the hinge of a door and made as a
biron on one end in order to quickly attach a small mortar with handles
of fifteen or xvii lb. for a common door or window.
B is a small mortar with handles.
C is a common mortar of 27 or 30 lb. pierced at the bottom, where a
large iron  rod passes, button-like on one end made like a biron
on the tip so as to quickly hang the mortar against a door that will not
be covered with iron  plates.
D These are slabs of wax , cork  and wood  for
loading the mortar and well packing the powder.
E iron  fork made in the form of pincers as tall as a man,
used to quickly set the mortar without a rod. It must be of soft
iron  so that the sides fold easily, if needed, and to accommodate
the height or width of the door.
F is another iron  fork of the same height that supports the
fork made as pincers and also sustains the mortar, and with its low claw
prevents the pincers from recoiling.
 
 168v
 G mortar with handles placed with its rod.
H knife-like saws to cut, if needed, a portcullis.
J the big iron  rods that cross and tie the mortar.
K are like iron  rods, all round and covered with cloths, like
all the rest, so as to make the big iron  rods, pierced close to
the button, turn.
L axes that one must always carry to chop and to break, in the
fortuitous case that the mortar has left anything entirely.
M a large wood  mallet for knocking down what was begun and
weakened by the axes and birons.
N are big wheelwright augers and birons for easily cutting a door or
window by making large holes close to one another.
O crutches as tall as a man that must be carried to put under a
portcullis immediately after the canon has been shot and to prevent the
portcullis from falling.
P are small iron  pincers for putting any low mortar against
the bolt of a door.

 169r
Molding a tortoise 
Furry animals 
Birds 
Leaf of vine - put 
Of the strawberry
Piece molding 
Molding a vase in a chassis
Molding capilli veneris 
Molds that need to be supported by nets 
Molding a bouquet
Rose carnations 
Hollow molding 
Hollow gilded silver 
Molding wort plant put 
+ Crayfish put and seen 
Grasshoppers
Barbots
Butterflies
Flies 
Bats
Enameling thin gold 
Molding in sugar 
Molding fish
Molding in sulfur  put 
Cardboard 
+ Wax  put 
Roughing out
Stamped medals full of lead 
Molding large carved wooden  pieces
Molding and making casts of metal 
animals 
+ Wheat oil  put and
seen 
Stag beetle 
Foot of a bittern molded
Thickness of a medal 
Very hard wax  
Molding the engraving on a ring 
Molding pieces of carcanets
Things that do not release from the mold … 
Fountains
Grottoes
Sundry mosses applied
Molding in three chassis 
Tempering iron  in order to engrave it
Etching on silver  and iron 
Stamping
White enamel , softening it with black calcinated river
pebbles 
 169v
Molding very thin likebimbalotiers  do
They mould in paper  or cardboard , because neither
sandy earth  nor metal  would mold so neatly and would not
receive. Or they engrave with stone  from Istre , for the
main side, and the reverse is in paper  or cardboard .

Reducing a round form into a hollow one
You must firstly mold it with plaster  as has been said
before, and in the plaster  throw in some wax  from which
will come a relief that you will repair very neatly, and will shape at
your pleasure. Then you will mold this wax  relief once more in
plaster , or even better with your tempered sand,
# , as if for a noyau. And in the latter throw in some
lead  and from this you will have a very neat relief, and if it is
not, repair it on cement  or a similar material, and beware that
it should always release well. And this one will always serve you as a
model for making as many hollow molds as you would like. In this way,
place half of your lead  figure which you have oiled , and
moisten it with spirits  as we have seen above, on your
clay  base, then mold this half with a white plaster .
Having taken hold, and having smoothed and flattened the plaster ,
take your black wax  mixed with sulphur  as we have seen
before, because it leaves nothing in the mold and melts quicker. Dip it
in hot urine , and once it is softened enough, make an imprint
with it on your half figure in lead . And you will have a very
neat hollow mold. Then adapt your wax  hollow mold into a square
shape, as it pleases you, as long as you have sufficient thickness, and
make sure it is well even on all sides, and then mold this hollow
wax ; and having it imprinted on one side, and having it flat and
even on the other, in the same way that you would mold a flat medal in
wax  or metal  in a noyau. And the noyau mold will give you,
whether in silver  or any other metal you wish, a figure similar
to the wax  one, which is to say, flat and even on one side, and
hollow on the other. And having cleaned this hollow, and having put it
in the bleach , if it is made of silver , you can put into
it some sugar  work
Having made a hole in your clay  base
and having placed there your half figure in wax , oil  it a
bit so that it comes out more easily.
Transparent wax  is not good as
opposed to one that has body, for making good imprints.
 Because you have molded one of your
halves with plaster  and wax , you can do the same thing to
the other half.
 
 170r
 perfume  and similar things. But be sure that the black wax with which you cast is hard, so it will come off rapidly when
dry so you can see if it has been stamped correctly. It can be made
harder by adding more melted sulphur  in the melted wax ,
and a bit of resin .

Common medals
Relief awls are made of untempered steel , and then it is
tempered. With it we beat on a matrice, not red hot on the fire as some
people think, but on some steeled iron , reheated and adoulcy,
that is then tempered.

Casting
Do not cast all at once because in doing so, the metal overflows and
gets cold instead of going to the bottom of the mold . Rather,
cast it bit by bit, and gently.

Iron  clamps
When you put them for the second time, make sure that the mould does
not wobble.

Molds
Those with noyau, when reheated, should be placed on half lit
charcoal , without being in contact with the air; like the frame
molds, they need to dry in the open, and uncovered.

Thick tin  pieces
They should not be casted with lead  or red tin , like
thin and fragile things. It is enough if they are well melted and hot.
Fragile things need to be red hot and made of red tin .

How to clean closed molds
You have to leave them cool down rather than blow inside to clean
them, because they hold the ashes when they are hot. Once cooled, they
are easier to clean. Have a fine brass  wire or a thin straw to
thoroughly clean the tail because it is through it that you cast. Blow
into it and siphon, bringing it to you. Give it volume before casting
the tail with wax , then cut it.

 
 

make a tail by soldering a latten  wire. The grains of a flower
are quite little, so they can be removed with the chaple, but the leafs
need to be peeled off correctly, then the paint will cover
everything.
 
 170v
In the year fifteen hundred seventy-eight, the second of July, the
heirs of the late Sr. Ouvryer received (two hundred and five ecus), the
rent of Saint-Frajou, amounting to twelve hundred and thirty
livres.
They have also received, as part of the revenue of the year fifteen
hundred seventy nine, three hundred forty three and one third ecus.
And for the first year, they remain to be paid  eighty livres
and fifteen sous, | and for the second settlement, they have not yet
received anything.

Against plague
Take, against pestilential fever or poison or plague, an
ecu 's weight  of your opiate  soaked in
scabious or bugloss  water , or thoroughly tempered
wine , if one is afflicted. After taking it, one needs to make
oneself sweat.

For preserving
Vinegar  made from rue  juniper
berries   crushed together. With this vinegar burning
bricks  shall be extinguished. And the vapor shall be received
through the mouth  & nostrils . This is to preserve
oneself when one goes into corrupt air: a garment can be thus perfumed
& remove infection from it , from a room, house,
&c . If you find yourself in a place where you do not have this
preparation, carry rue   & berries  pestled  together, then, according to your need, boil them in
vinegar  and use as above.
Rerum Scoticarum Historia, Georgio Bucanano
authore  
Rembertus Dodonæus, Mechliniensis medicus, | De stirpium
historia  
De L'Orme, De l'invention de bien bastir, and other
works 
Telesius, De coloribus, Vascosan  
Marbodius, go  De lapillis
prætiosis  
Ottonis episcopi | Frisigensis | Ab
orbe condito 
Abbatis | Urspergensis |
Chronicon 
Hieronymus | Mercurialis, |
Variarum 

  