 Vincenzo Sabio. Emeralds of Brissac I have taken minium, 26 ℥ , crystal and ground on marble 12 ℥, verdet 3
 taken minium, 26 ℥, crystal and ground on marble 12 ℥ , verdet 3 |ʒ|. Incorporate all together, put in a
 ℥, crystal and ground on marble 12 ℥, verdet 3 |ʒ| . Incorporate all together, put in a crucible covered with
 luted, that has a hole in the top. Fusion 7 hours without blowing. The mass was of a beautiful green. I
 was of a beautiful green. I have taken minium 12 ℥ , crystal 6 ℥, verdet 2 grains. Soft fusion vi
 beautiful green. I have taken minium 12 ℥, crystal 6 ℥ , verdet 2 grains. Soft fusion vi hours, refired 24
 have taken minium 12 ℥, crystal 6 ℥, verdet 2 grains . Soft fusion vi hours, refired 24 hours. The mass
 ℥, crystal 6 ℥, verdet 2 grains. Soft fusion vi hours , refired 24 hours. The mass was green, yellow &
 ℥, verdet 2 grains. Soft fusion vi hours, refired 24 hours . The mass was green, yellow & red. Sapphire Pebbles
 was green, yellow & red. Sapphire Pebbles or crystal 8 ℥ , minium 16 ℥, blacksmith’s salt 4 ℥, sparkling coryal
 & red. Sapphire Pebbles or crystal 8 ℥, minium 16 ℥ , blacksmith’s salt 4 ℥, sparkling coryal 4 grains. Fusion
 or crystal 8 ℥, minium 16 ℥, blacksmith’s salt 4 ℥ , sparkling coryal 4 grains. Fusion 6 hours. Counterfeit coral
 minium 16 ℥, blacksmith’s salt 4 ℥, sparkling coryal 4 grains . Fusion 6 hours. Counterfeit coral                       + One
 blacksmith’s salt 4 ℥, sparkling coryal 4 grains. Fusion 6 hours . Counterfeit coral                       + One needs to first
 wood or take a bizarre thorn branch, then melt a lb of the most beautiful clear pitch resin and put in
 the most beautiful clear pitch resin and put in one ounce of subtly ground vermilion with walnut oil, and if you
 the resin, & boil it over the brazier a good hour , & until it appears not to be thick, but
 well purified. For counterfeiting your coral, you can mix a quarter part of mastic into your purified resin to render it more
 with all colors of enamels. Varnish for panels Take a lb of Venice turpentine & heat it in a pot until
 a pot until it simmers, and put in half a lb of the turpentine oil of the whitest you can find,
 in the summer. It is commonly sold 15 sous a lb . A little more turpentine than turpentine oil is needed
 instead of fine turpentine. And you can put into two lb of toucommon turpentine one lb of fine turpentine oil &
 you can put into two lb of toucommon turpentine one lb of fine turpentine oil & do everything as with the
 cost you no more than five or six sous per lb & is sold for 40 sous per lb. This vessel
 sous per lb & is sold for 40 sous per lb . This vessel is for making large quantities of turpentine
 large quantities of turpentine oil, that is to say a bucket an hour , and no matter which turpentine it may be, whether
 large quantities of turpentine oil, that is to say a bucket an hour, and no matter which turpentine it may be,
 keep cold water in the cooler on the top. The lb is sold at xii sous, & at the bottom of
 it with a finger, it is ready. And for one lb of lavender spike oil, you will put five ounces of
 one lb of lavender spike oil, you will put five ounces of pulverized sandarac, although some only put in four ounces,
 ounces of pulverized sandarac, although some only put in four ounces , but this is neither so good nor so fatty.
 you see that the old varnish is removed, throw a bucket of water against the panel to clean it. Next put
 the panel to clean it. Next put it for a quarter of an hour in the sun to make it dry and to revive
 bread crusts, which you will boil in it for a good quarter of an hour . Next, put in one lb of the oil thus
 a good quarter of an hour. Next, put in one lb of the oil thus boiled the size of a walnut
 Next, put in one lb of the oil thus boiled the size of a walnut of black pitch & a double handful of grains of
 the size of a walnut of black pitch & a double handful of grains of wheat, without removing the garlic & onions,
 garlic & onions, and let it boil together for a good quarter of an hour . And when the pitch is well melted & when
 is dry. For excellent black varnish, add two or three paternoster beads of jet among the rest. Some consider walnut oil better.
 lot of varnish, it needs to boil for at least half a day , for it is better the more it boils. It
 a courtyard or an open space. In five or six lb of oil, one must put one lb of galipot, which
 five or six lb of oil, one must put one lb of galipot, which costs 4 sous, & some peeled garlic
 other in quite strong vinegar & leave it for xx4 hours before using it, & all will be tempered. Next spread
 a sponge or linen & leave it thus for xx4 hours & it will be etched. But if you should want
 however one likes, to represent various forms. + So take half rosette copper & half soft tin, that is to say
 represent various forms. + So take half rosette copper & half soft tin, that is to say fine, which has not
 be at a slant; next, look at it from one pace away. But if you look at it close up, it
 turn the concavity toward you. If you put the mirror at the end of a table & a candle on it, it will represent two lights
 a hole at the lower one, as wide as your little finger , perfectly round, from one side to the other. Then
 a sheet of paper on the window & let the middle of the sheet be over the hole. Pierce the sheet in the same
 yellow and white Take looking-glass tin and melt it. On half a lb of this, put half an ounce of quicksilver, and remove
 and melt it. On half a lb of this, put half an ounce of quicksilver, and remove it all at once from the
 little willow charcoal, or as much as the tallow, & half a walnut shell full of half-burned saffron. Some put in a little candy
 enough, the one who works seated, having his furnace the size of a carnation pot before him, breaks it off & continues. This is for
 only fatty oil, which is made in seven or eight days in the sun with walnut oil and lead white &
 and soaks it in in eau-de-vie of vinegar white wine for one night , then one melts it on a slow fire. Others
 metal whatsoever, then burnish it. Against windy colic Take a dozen dried common walnuts & throw them one after another into
 Next, let the wine cool and strain it, & pour half of it, for six extinguished walnuts are for one dose.
 half of it, for six extinguished walnuts are for one dose . Excellent cure against the suffocation of the matrix. For
 of the matrix. For relieving the pain of G. Take half a lb of finely pulverized golden & yellow marcasite, half an ounce
 half a lb of finely pulverized golden & yellow marcasite, half an ounce of storax, 4 lb of urine, incorporate everything well together,
 golden & yellow marcasite, half an ounce of storax, 4 lb of urine, incorporate everything well together, little by little, in
 it lukewarm on the pain. Against gonorrhea Aquae fabrorum antiquae lb i., boli Armeniae in tel tenuissimum pollinem redactae ℥.i., mellis
 antiquae lb i., boli Armeniae in tel tenuissimum pollinem redactae ℥ .i., mellis communis ʒ.iii. coquantur ad mellis despumationem. Tum refrigerata
 boli Armeniae in tel tenuissimum pollinem redactae ℥.i., mellis communis ʒ .iii. coquantur ad mellis despumationem. Tum refrigerata colentur cum forti
 grenades and giving force to fireworks Put among the powder six times as much of quicksilver and a sixth part of quicksilver. Tempering of
 among the powder six times as much of quicksilver and a sixth part of quicksilver. Tempering of balls for piercing armor of proof
 Because among the fine tin they quite often mix a half of lead, which renders the tin deaf, to correct this,
 can & hollow it in the middle. Put in an eighth part of ☿, in & into this, while adding water, rub
 François du Cros owes from 2nd September 1581, for 1 cane of cambric at 8 livres per canne, I make this
 2nd September 1581, for 1 cane of cambric at 8 livres per canne , I make this -- 8 lb t. Moved to
 at 8 livres per canne, I make this -- 8 lb t. Moved to the sales book at c. 25/ François du
 François du Cros owes from 2nd September 1581, for 1 canne of cambric at 8 livres per canne, as appears in
 2nd September 1581, for 1 canne of cambric at 8 livres per canne , as appears in the waste book at c. 25
 sales book, No. 7 at c. 55, the sum of 8 livres , of which the said du Cros has made a
 on St. Andrew’s day next, I make this -- 8 lb t. Counterfeit jasper Thin glass for this effect is very beautiful.
 rust & by its weight able to flow; taking i lb of lead, melt it and skim and purify it from
 purify it from its filth, then pour into it four ℥ of finely pulverized common salt, and take good care that
 well-cooked honey & turpentine of strong glue soaked for 24 hours in water then gently brought to boil so that it
 The work needs to be dried for 4 or 5 days before you reheat it. When you mold & make a
 between which they throw the earth, making each layer one foot thick or thereabouts, intermixing it as if S.S.S with branches
 run better. When the sand has been used for a month , it is necessary to take some new, because the
 where the tooth is hurting, & within two or three hours they feel well because of it. Others put in the
 furnace in this manner which has a width of one pan & a half & one pan & a half of a depth of
 a width of one pan & a half & one pan & a half of a depth of two pans. And the blast-pipe, which
 one pan & a half of a depth of two pans . And the blast-pipe, which is the barrel through marked
 the height of the furnace such that there is one pan of the mouth of the furnace above the blast-pipe &
 the mouth of the furnace above the blast-pipe & one pan underneath. Each pan of the mouth of the square furnace
 the furnace above the blast-pipe & one pan underneath. Each pan of the mouth of the square furnace contains one &
 Each pan of the mouth of the square furnace contains one & a half quintal , & the pan of the round furnace holds two
 square furnace contains one & a half quintal, & the pan of the round furnace holds two quintals. The miners, to
 quintal, & the pan of the round furnace holds two quintals . The miners, to make the iron run, put at
 put at the mouth of the melt, two or three handfuls of wallwort when they want to make the melt run,
 melted substance run. You will be able to melt two quintals of iron each time and to do this, you will
 each time and to do this, you will choose the biggest charcoal you can find & put a load of it
 breaking. which is usually of a height of d three pans & will reheat well the. But first, it is necessary
 your iron, not all at once but ten or fifteen lb each time. And when this will be swallowed & at
 put in as much again. And add three or four shovels of new charcoal which should be of the biggest kind
 see that your furnace is full of substance, around two quintals , or less if you do not of it have
 injection. For removing fine hair from the forehead Take a needle’s worth of fine silk & pass it tightly across the places
 and tin vessel with them & they will keep six months . Candles They keep well in bran which makes them
 cannon fires at point blank from five to six hundred paces . But not for battering, in which it can only
 in which it can only perform well from two hundred paces , or three hundred paces at the most, and it
 only perform well from two hundred paces, or three hundred paces at the most, and it should not be any farther.
 should not be any farther. Its ball commonly weighs 40 lb of the King’s caliber. There is a cannon-perrier, which weighs
 any farther. Its ball commonly weighs 40 lb of the King’s caliber . There is a cannon-perrier, which weighs xxv quintals, which
 the King’s caliber. There is a cannon-perrier, which weighs xxv quintals , which are small, short cannons. It is for fighting
 at close range. It bears a large ball of the King’s caliber like the others, namely of 40 lb. It bears in
 of the King’s caliber like the others, namely of 40 lb . It bears in the breech only the width of
 of 40 lb. It bears in the breech only the width of two balls & a quarter of a ball . The front only bears the width of one ball
 a quarter of a ball. The front only bears the width of one ball & a third of a ball . Its charge is similar to those of bigger ones,
 can do is to give it a charge of xx lb of fine arquebus powder instead of ordinary cannon powder. And
 gr short one. The cannon-perrier is commonly seven to eight pans long. It is true that this is a pan of
 eight pans long. It is true that this is a pan of Montpellier & not a King’s pan, which is not used in
 that this is a pan of Montpellier & not a King’s pan , which is not used in the founding of cannons
 the founding of cannons for making them good. For the pan of Montpellier being of shorter, the cannons more proportioned there are shorter
 thickness ce the length that they would have by the King’s pan , by which measure they will be found longer. But
 strength of the cannon-perrier for making a battery is 4xx paces . The great cannon, because of the weight of its
 carries a range of only a thousand or xii hundred paces without landing, & bouncing, it commonly bounces iii times. The
 you will see. The good alloy for pieces is of three parts of rosette & one of the fine metal of la large bells , where there is more rosette than in the metal
 the metal of small bells. The metal commonly costs xv lb & fine rosette xv or xvi. The pan of Montpellier
 costs xv lb & fine rosette xv or xvi. The pan of Montpellier is equivalent to six of the King’s inches, which contains
 The pan of Montpellier is equivalent to six of the King’s inches , which contains in it two common ones. It is
 which is for great batteries, commonly weighs fifty-five or lx quintals . At the breech it carries the thickness of b
 fifty-five or lx quintals. At the breech it carries the thickness of b two balls &one lof the three parts of one ball . At the front, it carries ba the thickness of
 of one ball. At the front, it carries ba the thickness of one ball & two two of the three parts . It is thirteen or fourteen pans long. But they
 two of the three parts. It is thirteen or fourteen pans long. But they are very troublesome to drive. The head-on
 & batter with great force, is at d one-hundred fifty paces & at two hundred. And It is true that one
 true that one batters well from three or 4 hundred paces , but it is necessary to give it more powder.
 it more powder. Its common load is p of xx lb of powder, its ball of 40 lb. One needs xxv
 p of xx lb of powder, its ball of 40 lb . One needs xxv horses to draw it. When one
 it farther than its usual range, one puts in a half ladle of cannon powder more. A cannon can fire 4xx or
 more. A cannon can fire 4xx or a hundred shots per day , but one needs to refresh it every time after
 is not necessary to refresh it as often. For two quintals of copper, or two quintals & a half if it
 it as often. For two quintals of copper, or two quintals & a half if it is for large cannons, one puts one quintal
 half if it is for large cannons, one puts one quintal of metal. # The metal is composed at the beginning
 # The metal is composed at the beginning of eight lb of tin for one quintal of rosette, while for large
 at the beginning of eight lb of tin for one quintal of rosette, while for large bells one only puts six
 of rosette, while for large bells one only puts six lb of fine tin for one quintal of rosette, to give
 one only puts six lb of fine tin for one quintal of rosette, to give it a bigger voice. For the
 do not have the means, one gives x to xii lb per quintal . And for the mat when the master provides everything,
 mat when the master provides everything, one gives him 40 lb, according to the King’s ordinance, per quintal for large pieces & such as cannons, and for small
 pieces & such as cannons, and for small pieces, L lb . For the more material there is, the more profit
 of it. One founds another kind of cannon-perriers of xxx quintals which are longer than the others, and easily eight pans
 quintals which are longer than the others, and easily eight pans long, & they are for battering defenses & casemates, s
 side of the opening of the breech they give the thickness of half a ball . And then they also add on each side the
 ball. And then they also add on each side the third part of a ball . Ain One gives it two ladles of cannon powder
 third part of a ball. Ain One gives it two ladles of cannon powder for its charge, & one & a
 it two ladles of cannon powder for its charge, & one & a half of arquebus powder, & the same for the others. # The
 others. # The composition of cannons of France is of one quintal of metal for two of rosette . But those of Toulouse & Poncet puts iii of
 into filth. Old pieces are composed of almost de dem as much of one as of the other , namely one part of rosette & one of metal.
 as much of one as of the other, namely one part of rosette & one of metal. One recognizes this composition
 white. Large culverins are for battery & piercing are forty quintals & eighteen pans long. Their ball, of the King’s caliber
 are for battery & piercing are forty quintals & eighteen pans long. Their ball, of the King’s caliber & for battery,
 forty quintals & eighteen pans long. Their ball, of the King’s caliber & for battery, is 30 lb and thus lighter than
 ball, of the King’s caliber & for battery, is 30 lb and thus lighter than that of the cannon. And thus,
 thus, it does not carry so much ammunition for fifteen lb suffices for its charge. The cannon makes a bigger opening
 due to its length. At the breech it carries the thickness of two of its balls & esthe three third s part of a ball , at the front the thickness of one ball &
 third s part of a ball, at the front the thickness of one ball & two thirds . Culverins serve to batter defenses from afar when one
 in order that the melt runs better. And for two quintals of rosette, one adds six twenties lb of metal for
 And for two quintals of rosette, one adds six twenties lb of metal for the smaller pieces. They shoot 8 or
 for the smaller pieces. They shoot 8 or 9 hundred paces at point blank, & up to a thousand paces if
 hundred paces at point blank, & up to a thousand paces if the powder is strong, & half a league at
 thousand paces if the powder is strong, & half a league at range. Some invented the loading of cannons with cartouches.
 time, saying that each ramming raises & gives a further thumb’s breadth . But this is not certain for large pieces which
 The bastarde, which is a culverin middle-sized piece, weighs thirty quintal s and its ball weighs xx lb xv lb and
 middle-sized piece, weighs thirty quintals and its ball weighs xx lb xv lb and carries as its charge x or xii
 weighs thirty quintals and its ball weighs xx lb xv lb and carries as its charge x or xii lb of
 xv lb and carries as its charge x or xii lb of powder. Its proportion is at the breech the thickness
 lb of powder. Its proportion is at the breech the thickness of two of its balls & thees threeird parts of a ball . At the front, the thickness of a ball &
 thees threeird parts of a ball. At the front, the thickness of a ball & two of three parts . or They serve to batter defences of little importance
 a tower & similar things. It is thirteen or xiiii pans long like the large cannon. Ten horses can move it.
 blank because it carries small ammunition. Some give it the thickness of three balls at the breech & at the front of two balls . The bastard culverin weighs 35 quintals & is xxv
 the front of two balls. The bastard culverin weighs 35 quintal s & is xxv pans long. It carries three balls
 balls. The bastard culverin weighs 35 quintals & is xxv pan s long. It carries three balls at the breech &
 weighs 35 quintals & is xxv pans long. It carries three balls at the breech & two in front . Its ball is like that of the bastarde piece,
 ball is like that of the bastarde piece, weighing xv lb . These are pleasure pieces which s cannot be moved
 are for city defences. Some make these xxvii or xxviii pan s long, like the Cow of La Rochelle. But to
 pieces one gives reinforcement at the breech as of three balls . At range, they can shoot around one league, &
 of three balls. At range, they can shoot around one league , & a half league at point blank. Its charge
 balls. At range, they can shoot around one league, & a half league at point blank. Its charge is like the bastarde. And
 culverin, and not for small pieces. The average weighs 18 quintals & measures xii pans long. Its ball weighs eight or
 small pieces. The average weighs 18 quintals & measures xii pans long. Its ball weighs eight or 9 lb & its
 measures xii pans long. Its ball weighs eight or 9 lb & its charge is six pounds of powder. And for
 weighs eight or 9 lb & its charge is six pounds of powder. And for At the breech it carries a
 of powder. And for At the breech it carries a thickness of three balls , & in front, two. It is more appropriate for
 horses can draw it. It shoots eight or nine hundred paces at point blank & almost as much as the bastarde.
 large pieces one givesn as much powder as is the diameter of a ball & a half , at which point the escutcheon sits. To medium pieces,
 of a ball & a half, at which point the escutcheon sits. To medium pieces, such as field pieces, & smaller
 field pieces, & smaller ones, one gives them powder the thickness of two balls . To the passe-volant & other smaller ones, one gives
 passe-volant & other smaller ones, one gives them powder the thickness of three balls . In general, one charges all pieces up to the
 thickness of three balls. In general, one charges all pieces up to the escutcheon . One charges with the ladle all pieces from the
 all pieces from the cannon to the piece of four quintals de char, and one gives them two ladles of cannon
 of four quintals de char, and one gives them two ladles of cannon powder or one & a half of arquebus
 of arquebus powder. To smaller ones, one only gives one ladle , & those of one quintal are charged with a
 ones, one only gives one ladle, & those of one quintal are charged with a small charge. The field piece weighs
 a small charge. The field piece weighs ten or twelve quintals & is ten pans long or 12. Its ball weighs
 field piece weighs ten or twelve quintals & is ten pans long or 12. Its ball weighs vi or vii lb
 pans long or 12. Its ball weighs vi or vii lb & its charge is 4 lb of powder. At the
 weighs vi or vii lb & its charge is 4 lb of powder. At the breech it has three balls &
 vii lb & its charge is 4 lb of powder. At the breech it has three balls & two in front , as do all pieces that are smaller than the
 one fires them more frequently than the large pieces. Their caliber is also small, which makes the breech 3 balls thick.
 pieces. Their caliber is also small, which makes the breech 3 balls thick . They are used for following a camp promptly &
 three good horses for drawing it. The passe-volant weighs vi quintals , is eight or nine pans long. Its ball weighs
 it. The passe-volant weighs vi quintals, is eight or nine pans long. Its ball weighs two lb, &, for its charge,
 is eight or nine pans long. Its ball weighs two lb , &, for its charge, a lb & a half
 Its ball weighs two lb, &, for its charge, a lb & a half of powder. At the breech it has
 for its charge, a lb & a half of powder. At the breech it has three balls & two in the front . Two horses can move it, for a single horse
 to break a rank of cavalry. The falconet weighs 4 quintals , is x pans long. Its ball weighs one lb
 rank of cavalry. The falconet weighs 4 quintals, is x pans long. Its ball weighs one lb & a quarter, its
 4 quintals, is x pans long. Its ball weighs one lb & a quarter, its charge is half a lb of
 one lb & a quarter, its charge is half a lb of powder. At the breech three balls, at the front,
 a quarter, its charge is half a lb of powder. At the breech three balls , at the front, two. To move it, two horses,
 with a ladle, and one commonly gives it only one ladle . There are also other falconets weighing three quintals, and
 only one ladle. There are also other falconets weighing three quintals , and which are nine pans long. Their ball weighs
 also other falconets weighing three quintals, and which are nine pans long. Their ball weighs half a lb. Their charge is
 quintals, and which are nine pans long. Their ball weighs half a lb . Their charge is a quarter of powder. It is
 either with a ladle, but more commonly with a charge. At the breech, 3 balls, & 2 in front . To the small pieces which are under 3 quintals
 in front. To the small pieces which are under 3 quintals one gives them at least 3 balls & a twelfth
 which are under 3 quintals one gives them at least 3 balls & a twelfth part of a ball at the breech, & sometimes takes away from the front
 the back of the breech. A double musket weighs 2 quintal s, is seven pans long, carries a ball of a
 the breech. A double musket weighs 2 quintals, is seven pans long, carries a ball of a quarter of a lb
 pans long, carries a ball of a quarter of a lb or a little less. At the breech 3 balls, two
 of a quarter of a lb or a little less. At the breech 3 balls, two in front . One loads it with as much powder as ball,
 a lb or a little less. At the breech 3 balls , two in front. One loads it with as much
 in front. One loads it with as much powder as ball , up to the top of the escutcheon, which in
 front. One loads it with as much powder as ball, up to the top of the escutcheon , which in these small pieces can amount to 3
 in these small pieces can amount to 3 or 4 balls of arquebus powder. For if one uses cannon powder, one
 one uses cannon powder, one can load it to a thickness of c five balls . One needs to understand all of this as iron
 one shoots a metal ball, one over-charges by a quarter ladle because if a cannon ball weighs 40 lb, the metal
 a quarter ladle because if a cannon ball weighs 40 lb , the metal one weighs lx lb. One also takes
 cannon ball weighs 40 lb, the metal one weighs lx lb . One also takes the gun-sight higher when shooting a
 one shoots an iron iron ball point-blank, one takes six lines higher when shooting metal balls. A metal ball makes alloyed
 hits more fiercely from afar. A simple musket weighs one quintal , is six pans long. carries a ball weighing qu
 from afar. A simple musket weighs one quintal, is six pans long. carries a ball weighing qu One has no consideration
 One has no consideration for those which are under two quintal s, which readily carry lead balls un of the weight
 will penetrate more than six lead ones. Its charge is up to the escutcheon , namely the thickness of 4 balls. Arquebus à croc
 ones. Its charge is up to the escutcheon, namely the thickness of 4 balls . Arquebus à croc weighs lx lb, that is to
 the thickness of 4 balls. Arquebus à croc weighs lx lb , that is to say the large one is five
 lb, that is to say the large one is five pans long, its charge is up to the escutcheon, namely the
 the large one is five pans long, its charge is up to the escutcheon , namely the length of 4 balls, it carries lead
 pans long, its charge is up to the escutcheon, namely the length of 4 balls , it carries lead balls, and is for the defence
 the fold e gives you a straight line, at the required distance from which, trace a point & a or a line
 with melted fresh butter and milk, and that there be as much of one as the other , in such a manner that it is very light
 glassworkers put on. Glass from Lorraine is sold by the bundle & each bundle is composed of three tablets. The bundle
 Glass from Lorraine is sold by the bundle & each bundle is composed of three tablets. The bundle costs usually x
 by the bundle & each bundle is composed of three tablets . The bundle costs usually x sous. Plate glass is
 bundle & each bundle is composed of three tablets. The bundle costs usually x sous. Plate glass is sold in made
 cannot be set quite evenly. Plate glass is sold by paniers . Every panier contains 24 plates that are commonly sold
 set quite evenly. Plate glass is sold by paniers. Every panier contains 24 plates that are commonly sold at x or
 Plate glass is sold by paniers. Every panier contains 24 plates that are commonly sold at x or twelve lb. For
 all the more since it weighs two hundred and fifty quintals . A form of regimen Every morning, take two or
 the centers well dusted with sugar. And next drink one finger of wine. And apart from being nourishing, it makes a
 not loaded with a ladle, one charges them with powder up to the escutcheon , which is placed on the piece with due proportion.
 than breaking, they have more violence. Cannon ball, weighing 40 lb , having 12 lines, king's foot. A little too big,
 have more violence. Cannon ball, weighing 40 lb, having 12 lines , king's foot. A little too big, see the one
 more violence. Cannon ball, weighing 40 lb, having 12 lines, king's foot . A little too big, see the one of that
 like a solid square have cannons only three four one pan & a half long. Also, they only serve for making
 defending a door. A small arquebus à croc weighs 40 lb , is four pans long, is loaded up to the
 A small arquebus à croc weighs 40 lb, is four pans long, is loaded up to the escutcheon, has three balls
 croc weighs 40 lb, is four pans long, is loaded up to the escutcheon , has three balls at the breech & two in
 four pans long, is loaded up to the escutcheon, has three balls at the breech & two in front . The double cannon is no different from the large
 cannon, except that it carries its ball which has one line of thickness, or of diameter, more. The line is a
 has one line of thickness, or of diameter, more. The line is a twelfth part of the ball of the cannon.
 of thickness, or of diameter, more. The line is a twelfth part of the ball of the cannon . At the breech, it has one line of thickess
 ball of the cannon. At the breech, it has one line of thickess more than the cannon, & half at the
 half at the front. Its charge is six or seven lb of powder, more than a cannon, namely by two big
 of powder, more than a cannon, namely by two big ladles . Its ball weighs 56 lb. One needs thirty horses
 cannon, namely by two big ladles. Its ball weighs 56 lb . One needs thirty horses to draw it. It makes
 On petards Such a petard is made which weighs three quintals , carries a cannonball flat on the side on which
 it were a cannonball cut in half. It is two pans long. It is charged with xxv lb of powder for
 It is two pans long. It is charged with xxv lb of powder for at it needs to be full up
 to be better than that of pieces, & for 4 quintals of fine copper there ought to be only one quintal
 quintals of fine copper there ought to be only one quintal of metal in order that it holds the blast, &,
 place it, one needs three or four iron pegs one pan long & as thick as a finger which should have
 iron pegs one pan long & as thick as a finger which should have their point like a wimble gimlet, &
 take eight or nine canes of buckram strip or more if the ditch is larger,
 is larger, and let the strip be four or five fingers wide. Have it well sewn in such a way that
 a gut through lwhich a stick as thick as a finger can pass. Fill it completely with good This one is
 but here one needs only half a charge, namely x lb , & to fill it with flint stones & cart
 which exptends beyond the mouth of the petard by two pans . Others only put the ball. powder. When the sausage
 to wet the canvas & not the powder, in two parts of vinegar & of one of eau-de-vie. Next, let the
 said sausage a long string or cord which should be two times longer than the sausage , & one ought not to tighten it to the
 a or tightly attach a large strip of canvas one empan wide which should also be well soaked in turpentine; &
 iron grates are sufficient if they weigh 40 or 50 lb . Moreover, as for its charge, ball, & fashion of
 as is already said above, concerning the one of 3 quintals . One man can carry it. The ball needs to
 & flat on the other like a half ball a half of a cut ball. It is also necessary that the
 metal of a large bell is made one with 3 quintal s of rosette & twenty or xxv lb of tin.
 one with 3 quintals of rosette & twenty or xxv lb of tin. Tan Each grenade must weigh four to six
 of tin. Tan Each grenade must weigh four to six lb . And in order to throw them, it is necessary
 powder mixed with coarsely pestled glass. And for a quarter lb of powder, one needs half an ounce of glass which
 for a quarter lb of powder, one needs half an ounce of glass which is put with it, in order that
 required here. The hole needs to be as large as the thickness of a swan’s quill , & you need not bother to make it threaded,
 middle of the grenade & which comes out of it by the width of one finger . You will fill it with good powder, pestled in
 the powder troops. The thickness of the grenade should be twice the back edge of a knife . For bringing a cannon over land If you have
 to make a level ground or a platform of four fingers or half a foot thick, and one sets them into
 a level ground or a platform of four fingers or half a foot thick, and one sets them into the earth. The platform
 into the earth. The platform is five or six cano feet larger than the wheels of the cannon on each side
 touch. The distance which is between the pieces is the width of two gabions . As long as the battery lasts, the gunners sleep
 One keeps the small powder magazine, of three or four kegs , separately, A touch-hole at the level of the breach
 in this way the cannon hardly pushes back. a hundred paces away from the battery & one surrounds them with barricades
 box, and other furniture of the cannon, one needs seven quintals and a half of iron. Pour les pre The best
 the ring of the mouth & they diminish it one line , or more or less, on each side, always taking
 or otherwise. And this reduction amounts to seven or eight quintals reduction & lightening in weight, and the piece is not
 end to the other. The trunnions are commonly situated one foot from the ring of the middle, from toward the edge
 Bastarde ball Medium ball Field piece Falconet Falconet of 4 quintals , alternatively passe-volant, is 8 pans long 3 quintals, is
 piece Falconet Falconet of 4 quintals, alternatively passe-volant, is 8 pans long 3 quintals, is 9 pans long 2 quintals, is
 of 4 quintals, alternatively passe-volant, is 8 pans long 3 quintals , is 9 pans long 2 quintals, is one cane
 alternatively passe-volant, is 8 pans long 3 quintals, is 9 pans long 2 quintals, is one cane long, which is 8
 8 pans long 3 quintals, is 9 pans long 2 quintals , is one cane long, which is 8 Montpellier pans
 3 quintals, is 9 pans long 2 quintals, is one cane long, which is 8 Montpellier pans 1 quintal, is six
 long 2 quintals, is one cane long, which is 8 Montpellier pans 1 quintal, is six pans and a half 1 quintal
 is one cane long, which is 8 Montpellier pans 1 quintal , is six pans and a half 1 quintal and
 long, which is 8 Montpellier pans 1 quintal, is six pans and a half 1 quintal and a half is 7
 pans 1 quintal, is six pans and a half 1 quintal and a half is 7 pans and a half 60
 and a half 1 quintal and a half is 7 pans and a half 60 lb musket, is 5 pans and
 and a half is 7 pans and a half 60 lb musket, is 5 pans and a half or 6 5
 7 pans and a half 60 lb musket, is 5 pans and a half or 6 5 quintals is eleven pans
 musket, is 5 pans and a half or 6 5 quintals is eleven pans and a half The measure of the
 pans and a half or 6 5 quintals is eleven pans and a half The measure of the caliber of pieces
 caliber of pieces The numbers and dots show how many quintals the piece weighs that carries the marked caliber. Pewterers They
 masters remelt it a in grille, weighing two or three lb , to easily cut it up and sell it by
 Commonly, the sworn master pewterers, from bonnes villes, add six lb of fine lead on or eight on a quintal of
 six lb of fine lead on or eight on a quintal of fine tin. The others, who work in the countryside,
 they and its softness, they put in looking-glass tin, 4 lb per quintal, + po which whitens & hardens, and a
 its softness, they put in looking-glass tin, 4 lb per quintal , + po which whitens & hardens, and a little
 which whitens & hardens, and a little six or eight lb of rosette on a quintal to render the plate sonorous.
 a little six or eight lb of rosette on a quintal to render the plate sonorous. To mold platters & dishes,
 tin is fine, one adds less glass-looking tin, namely 4 lb per quintal, but if the tin is base, that is
 fine, one adds less glass-looking tin, namely 4 lb per quintal , but if the tin is base, that is to
 lot of lead, one puts at least five or six lb of looking-glass tin to it. If there is hardly any
 hardly any looking-glass tin, one puts about two or three lb per quintal. One puts eight lb of rosette. But if
 looking-glass tin, one puts about two or three lb per quintal . One puts eight lb of rosette. But if there
 about two or three lb per quintal. One puts eight lb of rosette. But if there is a lot of looking-glass
 a lot of looking-glass tin one, like 4 or 5 lb , one only puts six of rosette. And commonly, per
 lb, one only puts six of rosette. And commonly, per quintal of tin, one adds x lb of both. Go to
 rosette. And commonly, per quintal of tin, one adds x lb of both. Go to the fifth leaf. Stucco for molding
 like, masks or garlands, which will be dry within one day . Next, you will apply them with strong glue or
 water so that it is clear, & grind it several times a day for fifteen days. Then pour off the water
 clear, & grind it several times a day for fifteen days . Then pour off the water by tilting, and gather
 in the open air & in the serain for fifteen days with its water, and it will become matte, strong, white
 glass bottle put the best eau-de-vie you can find, in sufficient quantity . For it And stop it well and so diligently
 it would be worth nothing. And leave it thus for a long time , because the longer it stays there, the more beautiful
 is not in saulmon, but in lattes of around an arm's length & three fingers' width. It is transported to Lyon,
 but in lattes of around an arm's length & three fingers' width. It is transported to Lyon, and from this, the
 desgrusoue desgrusouer with a rope, as thick rope as the little finger , & lean it firmly on the crossbar to secure
 strong branches, having plowed it, put at each foot two handfuls of pigeon dung. Colored waters Distilled urine, distilled vinegar and
 grind it on shale, & mix in two or three rosary beads ’ worth of rocaille or more, according to the quantity
 with very little honey, that is to say a few drops to make it stick. And with it they form letters,
 villagers. And they make them in long bands, some the width of ten b straws , others of thirteen. And they work on them mainly
 straws, others of thirteen. And they work on them mainly in summer . And in winter, when they put it to use,
 thirteen. And they work on them mainly in summer. And in winter , when they put it to use, they sew it.
 pale orange. Founder They buy rosette at xx lb a quintal , which is harder to melt than latten because it
 them by means of water, but they are breakable. A quintal of per fine coppersmith’s rosette is sold for xxx or
 founders use, is sold for xii or xv lb. The quintal of metal, six lb. Put in # Gold, silver, copper,
 And also the notch needs to be as thick as the back of a knife in order that it cannot cause pain. And you will
 dried between wicker and cut from it a small piece like a toothpick , & la m put one end between your index
 You will cut from it a small piece as thick as a toothpick , & thus you will give him something from a
 a string or a small stick and take the measurement from the tip of his ear to the tip of his nose and show it to him. Thus you will teach him
 in water so that it floats by two or three fingers . For making rabbits come out of a burrow Take
 vessel to another Take two small wooden bushels of the same size , which should be hollow on the bottom exterior by
 should be hollow on the bottom exterior by about the width of the back of a knife or more . One of these will remain empty, & on the
 you will place as much grain as can be held within the capacity of one of the bushels , and over the top put a simple piece of
 of plain leather, such as cow or morocco, somewhat thick, as tall as three fingers , sewn like the finger of a glove & large
 three fingers, sewn like the finger of a glove & large enough that two fingertips can fit inside & which, at the tip, which is a little puckered,
 tip, which is a little puckered, has a round hole as large as a double liard . Take one two similar boxwood balls, & let one
 make with it an opiate of which you will take once a week on a host soaked in wine. Then you will be
 in wine. Then you will be able to drink a finger of sufficiently tempered wine. This dissipates the phlegm & the
 the winds which arise from it. You can take six pepper grains & grate their rinds such that they are smooth, &
 leaves & not bear enough fruit. Make small e holes, two fingers by two fingers , with a stake & put in each two or
 the holes lightly with it. Next, spread over all the thickness of a thumb of havets, that is to say wheat fl chaff, in
 to restore it, it needs to be soaked for one night in urine, then boiled a little in it. Sapphire One
 makes beautiful violet. Beautiful artichokes One needs to prune them every year so that only one stalk is left, & water them
 is left, & water them thoroughly. L Also replant some every year , for the second year they will bear very beautiful
 thoroughly. L Also replant some every year, for the second year they will bear very beautiful fruit. Planting trees One says
 traffic in pastel woad have double-entry books. Scarlets Because one aulne costs seven or eight lb to dye, they use cloths
 dye, they use cloths worth seven or eight francs an aulne . But whoever wants something beautiful se la should buy
 se la should buy white cloth worth fifteen francs an aulne & have it dyed with pure scarlet pastel woad &
 in order to save borax, which costs viii sous per ounce , & saltpeter x sous per lb. When goldsmiths have
 costs viii sous per ounce, & saltpeter x sous per lb . When goldsmiths have thus assembled their silver filings with
 so fertile that if one were to grow wheat there every year , it would lie flat for being too vigorous. This
 and to fill a vat with it, one needs six balls of it. In this, one dyes several locks of wool,
 needs six balls of it. In this, one dyes several locks of wool, and if it dyes fifteen times, it is
 thread & similar things. Aquafortis Some put on for four pounds of substance of aquafortis four which are in the retort
 substance of aquafortis four which are in the retort four ounces of common water in the receptacle, which is better than
 grate, where you set your retort, is sufficiently far, one dour or half a foot, from the bottom grate where the
 you set your retort, is sufficiently far, one dour or half a foot , from the bottom grate where the charcoal is placed,
 in the fire, but one needs to mix it with half as much sand and a quarter or a fifth of horse dung.
 to mix it with half as much sand and a quarter or a fifth of horse dung. And leave it to
 with half as much sand and a quarter or a fifth of horse dung. And leave it to dry, then turn
 its first blossom & it will bud & bloom only in the following year , & I believe bulbous herbs do this. Sand The
 can burn it with aspalte or mix it with a quarter part of tripoli. Guard against bread falling into your sand because
 black. Ducks Young domestic ones do not grow for a month after they are hatched, but remain in this state. But
 is to say castrate, when they are one or two years old, he must not have been with his wife for
 not dry. White varnish on plaster Give two or three coats of quite white glue for painting. Next, varnish with varnish
 lead. Others grind minium with quicksilver. Purple ℞ stagno dolce, meza onça , farlo fondere in un cochiaro. Depoi fonduto, gectarly dentro
 farlo fondere in un cochiaro. Depoi fonduto, gectarly dentro una ℥ de ☿, mesedar insieme. Essendo freddo, macinar supra il porfidio.
 insieme. Essendo freddo, macinar supra il porfidio. Dapoi piglia una ℥ de sal armoniaco, una ℥ de solfo del più giallo
 il porfidio. Dapoi piglia una ℥ de sal armoniaco, una ℥ de solfo del più giallo que se possa troval, macinar
 a pignatta sublimatorio di vetro, tenerlo sopra picciol fuoco una hora & una hora un poco piu forte & una hora
 di vetro, tenerlo sopra picciol fuoco una hora & una hora un poco piu forte & una hora bonissimo fuoco, et
 hora & una hora un poco piu forte & una hora bonissimo fuoco, et sarà fatto. Dapoi, per adoperarla, datte il
 brazilwood very finely, put it to soak one or two hours in clear water, then take this tinted water & add
 claret colored as you like. If you please, put a drop of lemon or orange juice in it & it will
 And then, the thickness of the barrel gains about one line over the caliber, and the sight another. It would therefore
 arquebus The proportion is of the fowling piece is 4 king’s feet long & the ball xviii deniers, the charge vi deniers
 piece is 4 king’s feet long & the ball xviii deniers , the charge vi deniers of powder, its range iiiixx
 feet long & the ball xviii deniers, the charge vi deniers of powder, its range iiiixx pans & 3 feet lxi
 deniers, the charge vi deniers of powder, its range iiiixx pans & 3 feet lxi & a half, two inches &
 vi deniers of powder, its range iiiixx pans & 3 feet lxi & a half, two inches & a few lines,
 iiiixx pans & 3 feet lxi & a half, two inches & a few lines, which is the Paris aulne. The
 feet lxi & a half, two inches & a few lines , which is the Paris aulne. The medium hackbut, which
 half, two inches & a few lines, which is the Paris aulne . The medium hackbut, which is the usual one &
 usual one & the easiest, carries a ball of xv deniers , v deniers of powder & a range of lx
 & the easiest, carries a ball of xv deniers, v deniers of powder & a range of lx paces. Pewterer They
 deniers, v deniers of powder & a range of lx paces . Pewterer They mix viii lb or ten of lead,
 & a range of lx paces. Pewterer They mix viii lb or ten of lead, per quintal of tin in cities
 Pewterer They mix viii lb or ten of lead, per quintal of tin in cities where they are sworn masters. But
 add as much as they can. One also uses ii lb of looking-glass tin to bind it & three lb of
 ii lb of looking-glass tin to bind it & three lb of debris, that is to say the copper shards that
 from pushing back, it is necessary to clean your arquebus every eight days , & rub it with oil, & when you fire,
 & apply it to paper, & if one or two hours later it does not die there, it is fine and
 And passing a small flat stick of ii or three fingers wide between, next they pass two hairs at each step of
 hairs in the entire sieve. They sell them by the dozen & each dozen xxx sous. They bring them to Toulouse
 They sell them by the dozen & each dozen xxx sous . They bring them to Toulouse to transport them afterward
 it in a very long bath for three or 4 days . Then separate your decoction from the residue, of which
 which you will place in a bain marie for two days and your oil will turn white. If you rub the
 because it is too fatty, but take rosin & sulfur, as much as of one as the other , & as much of wax as the two together,
 hail shot One needs to make a wooden pipe as long as the width of 4 or 5 fingers , which should be hollowed precisely according to the mouth
 of large printed books, in the form of D, as wide as you want to make your cartridge long , wrap the paper around the baton B & at
 waxed cloth or waxed paper, it will reach one hundred paces & will make for great piercing, & the hail shot,
 as much clove oil as can be held in a walnut shell , and as much rose honey, & seven or eight
 shell, and as much rose honey, & seven or eight drops of oil of sulfur, & mix it well all together.
 four or five fresh crow eggs, & the over the space of 4 or five mornings cook one of them, and, having mixed in it a
 mixed in it a bit of powdered gentian & one drop of oil of sulfur, give it to the patient. It
 heated turns black & penetrates. For teeth Sal ammoniac i ℥ , rock salt 1 ℥, alum half an ℥. Make
 penetrates. For teeth Sal ammoniac i ℥, rock salt 1 ℥ , alum half an ℥. Make water with the retort,
 teeth Sal ammoniac i ℥, rock salt 1 ℥, alum half an ℥ . Make water with the retort, and as soon as
 soles of the feet with wax oil & take one drop or two of it with a spoonful of broth. The
 & take one drop or two of it with a spoonful of broth. The root of consolida maior, pestled & put
 of wine. Founding Some, to make it run neatly, put half metal & half copper. Others take one part of potin
 Some, to make it run neatly, put half metal & half copper. Others take one part of potin & one part
 neatly, put half metal & half copper. Others take one part of potin & one part of copper latten. Others take
 half copper. Others take one part of potin & one part of copper latten. Others take one part of candlestick latten
 potin & one part of copper latten. Others take one part of candlestick latten & one part of basin latten. And
 latten. Others take one part of candlestick latten & one part of basin latten. And among basins, the latten of larger
 must be luted. Casting Finely calcined pumice stone casts 22 carat gold without repair, but it needs to be ablaze and
 is to say iii or 4, or up to 5 grains , mixed with their food. Having given it to them
 their food. Having given it to them for one one week , give them another seven or eight days after. Excellent
 for one one week, give them another seven or eight days after. Excellent mustard Dry bread in an oven, then lard
 with sal ammoniac & . Extraction of regulus ℞ one lb of antimony, half a lb black soap, and half a
 & . Extraction of regulus ℞ one lb of antimony, half a lb black soap, and half a lb of tartar from Montpellier.
 one lb of antimony, half a lb black soap, and half a lb of tartar from Montpellier. Once the whole is pulverized, one
 and it will be necessary that it is reduced by a third . Then one needs to cast it on a tile
 the antimony & mix it with saltpeter & pulverized tartar, as much of one as of the other , &, having heated a pot or crucible red hot,
 them. One Pewterers put in on the fine tin one lb of looking-glass tin per one quintal of fine tin &
 the fine tin one lb of looking-glass tin per one quintal of fine tin & two lb & a half or
 looking-glass tin per one quintal of fine tin & two lb & a half or three lb of red & soft
 fine tin & two lb & a half or three lb of red & soft cauldron copper, which is better than
 heats the mold well or one casts large works. Three quarters of lead per one lb of soft tin, makes a
 one casts large works. Three quarters of lead per one lb of soft tin, makes a very liquid line & proper
 sold in front of churches, y melt one for one lb of tin a half of lead, & cast in stone,
 & if they want their work whiter, they put p half tin and half lead, but the first mixture is the
 want their work whiter, they put p half tin and half lead, but the first mixture is the best, & does
 on glass with resin. Some put into the lead a quarter of tin. Looking-glass tin renders the work stronger. Poncet They
 Burnt & calcined pumice stone. Burnt & calcined cuttlefish bones, as much of one as of the other ; & ashes of walnut tree or vine, well boiled,
 bound with glair of egg. Pewterers They put into one quintal of fine tin one lb of looking-glass tin, which renders
 Pewterers They put into one quintal of fine tin one lb of looking-glass tin, which renders the tin thicker. There are
 end the other end, put your card three or 4 fingers away from the water that you will have put in
 the smallest. The largeish one will reach 25 to 30 paces . Birds Those that can are taken at St. Michael
 go away like turtledoves do. Siskins should also be taken from All Saints’ Day until Christmas , for after that they go to the mountains to
 whatever fruit that you want. Put in some hot water for the space of two hours . And when your water is cooled, throw it out
 with a spider, which one needs to give to it once a week in order that no gaillardisse comes to it. The calandra
 like that from Germany & Biscaye, which is sold in small beads . Some curry steel, giving it a heating, then temper
 worn ones print better, boil them for four or five good hours in a good lye quite spent in the wash water.
 again to boil thoroughly, then finally you put in one part of lampblack that you have previously ground on marble with
 large glass mattras, as thick as you can, & one finger thick if it can be done, & of the capacity
 finger thick if it can be done, & of the capacity of one pitcher or earthen jug . Around the feast of St. John, put into it
 with this dozen & a half egg yolks put in half an ounce (others say for lx eggs half a lb) of female
 put in half an ounce (others say for lx eggs half a lb ) of female silkworm seeds. And after having luted the
 or seven weeks & will become like a snake, one empan & 4 fingers long, & one lb in weight, and
 & will become like a snake, one empan & 4 fingers long, & one lb in weight, and as its wings
 a snake, one empan & 4 fingers long, & one lb in weight, and as its wings begin to grow, one
 making a ring of charcoal fire around the bottle one empan distant from it, and then stopper & lute the bottle
 in a mortar. And keep this powder carefully, because one ℥ of this thrown on iii lb of molten ♁ reduces
 powder carefully, because one ℥ of this thrown on iii lb of molten ♁ reduces it to finer ☉ than the
 forged. Casting of lead One mixes it, according to some, half tin & half lead, and to l'esch heat it, one
 lead One mixes it, according to some, half tin & half lead, and to l'esch heat it, one mixes in a
 is to say eggs, that which is sold by the ounce , which is commonly sold in Languedoc iii lb v
 by the ounce, which is commonly sold in Languedoc iii lb v s. The one from Spain that merchants bring there
 to illnesses & make more silk. In Spain, from one ounce of silk seed, worms are produced from it which commonly
 worms are produced from it which commonly yield ord xv lb of silk. But the ounce from one ounce of seed
 ord xv lb of silk. But the ounce from one ounce of seed produced in France, only x or xii come
 France, only x or xii come out of it. Three ounces of seed are for producing such a quantity of worms,
 leaves, and then arrange them on the shelves. And three times per day , one needs to exchange fresh leaves. And if during
 rest 4 times, & each time remain 4 or five days resting without eating, as if they were dying to be
 to spin their prison, which one calls cocoon, commonly the size of a pigeon egg , although one finds much larger ones because it sometimes
 stayed inside living on its own sap il for three weeks , it comes out, diminished by half. For when it
 own sap il for three weeks, it comes out, diminished by half . For when it begins to spin, it is as
 by half. For when it begins to spin, it is as long as a ring finger & has eight feet, & coming out it is shorter
 finger & has eight feet, & coming out it is shorter by half & only has 4 feet. On the other hand, it
 They have completed spinning & making their eggs in three weeks & around St. John’s Day. And at that time one
 And at that time one keeps their eggs & seed until Holy Week , as on is said. Some spin among the leaves
 porkfat, the freshest that you can, as long as the joint of the little finger & of the caliber, & put it in the pipe
 the whole well & put it under horsedung for the space of fifteen days . The snails will first live on the egg yolks,
 sun & in the serain for the space of fifteen days . Next you will break it from quite far away
 separately & horseradish leaf separately, & mix these two waters, as much of one as of the other , & temper in this. For knowing the course one
 it will make a trail that will show for ten leagues because the water is parted wherever the oil has passed.
 mixed with tin, only for giving it strength, and two parts of tin for lead for of one of tin or
 a muid or other vessel, then throw into it two pecks of salt. Next, take a big cauldron of the said
 throw into it two pecks of salt. Next, take a big cauldron of the said river water & heat it to a
 a litte more than tepid. & take three or four double handfuls of fatty red earth, soak it & throw it into
 throw it into the cauldron with the said water. Take as much pigeon dung as the said earth , & as much horse dung, & as much iron
 Take as much pigeon dung as the said earth, & as much horse dung , & as much iron filings, & mix the whole
 as the said earth, & as much horse dung, & as much iron filings , & mix the whole separately, & throw it into
 into the cauldron & leave it for two or three days . Then throw it afterward into the said muid and
 the earth, only the leather remains neatly imprinted of the size of a pea . And then you give the leather two or three
 oil in Flanders costs at least a hundred sous a pint . The azure requires a little fatty oil because it
 are the most desiccative, nevertheless they need a good two days . If you want to prove whether an oil is
 with it, & if it produces a crust in a day soon it means that it will dessicate. Double layers Azures,
 & the color will take there. Varnish dry in an hour Take white turpentine oil & turpentine & mastic, pulverized &
 a stick until it is dry. And put in two liards' worth of good eau-de-vie. And if you extract the tear
 one is excellent for panels and is dry within an hour and does not stick like the turpentine one. Cleaning panels
 glass, but of canvas anointed with clear turpentine varnish, namely half turpentine oil & almost half turpentine, because this light, which
 anointed with clear turpentine varnish, namely half turpentine oil & almost half turpentine, because this light, which is not as bright as
 die. Grinding colors A slab of marble & p glass a glass thumb thick is more appropriate than anything else for grinding colors neatly,
 evening. After having gilded, let it dry & rest one day , next rub the gilding with a feather & cotton
 render it desiccative. The varnish will be dry in an hour . It will increase the color of gold. And this
 But it must be well dried for eight or ten days . Gold color that is made of different colors cleaned
 the gold is dry & you clean it, for an ounce is still gold. In Flanders, women make gild. It is
 grip, it is a sign that in ten or twelve hours it will be dry & appropriate for gilding. * To
 of bread freshly drawn from the oven & split them in half &, as hot as may be done, apply them &
 be done, apply them & they & do this 3 times a day & continue 4 or 5 days. Next, make a plaster
 this 3 times a day & continue 4 or 5 days . Next, make a plaster with Venice turpentine or better,
 cut the hair from the tail of a squirrel’s fur, as much in one go as one can hold in a card folded up like a cannule . And putting it thus into the said folded card,
 Turpentine varnish made with this oil is dry in one hour . Fanciful tables You can make various grooved compartments &
 hot, & so that the molded object should be 4 fingers away from the cast. In order to know its heat,
 heat, first melt it well, so hot with such a degree of heat that it promptly burns in a shiver a paper or
 it to rest a little & cast. Tin mixed with half lead comes out almost better than pure tin pure or
 it be mixed with common earth, but three or 4 feet below & the closest to the tuf or stone. Since
 good to mix it with a little copper, like a quarter part , with the substance of skillets. Founders do cast frames
 skillets. Founders do cast frames up to 30 or 40 lb , but not more. It is good for big work,
 One finds that it comes out better alloyed with a quarter of copper, but let it be cast very hot. Copper
 up, they remove it from light it with burning paper to know if it is hot enough . Next, to ignite it entirely, they pour it from
 it again a little, adding a few cloves & a sufficient quantity of sugar. And they dri drink it as hot as
 almost as habitually as we use wine. Varnish To a half lb of spike lavender oil, put in 4 ℥ of sandarac
 a half lb of spike lavender oil, put in 4 ℥ of sandarac & mastic subtly pulverized. And first, boil your
 melted in a tin dish. It is composed of one part looking-glass tin, one part soft tin, & another part lead.
 dish. It is composed of one part looking-glass tin, one part soft tin, & another part lead. It runs very neatly
 alloy good for running lead & tin is per one lb of lead, one lb & a half of tin aultr,
 lead & tin is per one lb of lead, one lb & a half of tin aultr, in order that the
 aultr, in order that the tin exceeds more than one part . It is solder which flows well & is good
 florey or of Flanders & quicklime, and put around four fingers of water over it, and let it soak one day.
 fingers of water over it, and let it soak one day . Take the water where the said lime has soaked,
 hollow grais. For making bronze in gold color Take one ounce of sal ammoniac and grind it in an iron mortar.
 it in an iron mortar. Once well ground, take one ounce of sulfur, and grind it separately. When it is well-ground,
 sal ammoniac & grind it together again. Then take one ounce of soft tin & one ounce of quicksilver, then melt
 again. Then take one ounce of soft tin & one ounce of quicksilver, then melt your tin & put your quicksilver
 the bronze and apply it on top. Varnish Take two ounces of spike lavender oil & one ounce of sandarac. Take
 Varnish Take two ounces of spike lavender oil & one ounce of sandarac. Take a clean pot, & warm it, &
 on the wood. Another recipe for making varnish Take one ounce of verinseVenice turpentine & one quarter ounce of oil of
 making varnish Take one ounce of verinseVenice turpentine & one quarter ounce of oil of perolle petrolle & one ounce of sandarac
 one quarter ounce of oil of perolle petrolle & one ounce of sandarac & one of spike lavender oil. Color of
 of spike lavender oil. Color of burnished copper Take one ounce of sal ammoniac with one ounce of brouillamini and half
 burnished copper Take one ounce of sal ammoniac with one ounce of brouillamini and half of copper filings with one ounce
 ounce of brouillamini and half of copper filings with one ounce of sulfur & a half-septier of vinegar. Push it all
 of copper filings with one ounce of sulfur & a half-septier of vinegar. Push it all into a small tile oven
 put your pot into the said oven for the whole day . For bronzing white Take looking-glass tin & put it
 will put it on marble. For making vermilion Take two pounds of sulfur, & melt it, & put it into two
 of sulfur, & melt it, & put it into two pounds of merecuse mercury. And if this substance ignites, cover it
 some time after into a leaded pot, onto the fire for the space of twenty-four hours . You will have good vermilion. For making varnish Take
 You will have good vermilion. For making varnish Take one pound of linseed oil, and then you will put it in
 fire, so that it boils for the space of five hours . You will take half an ounce of flour glue,
 boils for the space of five hours. You will take half an ounce of flour glue, & you will make it boil just
 a spoon. And then, after, you will put in two ounces of well-pestled sandarac & will do as above. And then
 And then after, you will take mastic & arrabeic, two ounces each, which will both be well ground, and you will
 it boil while stirring continuously, for the space of five hours . And then you will put d’araucq rock alum, two
 hours. And then you will put d’araucq rock alum, two ounces , & then you will make it boil. And if
 you will make it boil. And if you add two ounces of l’arablearabic to it, if you see that they are
 it with copper. Bronze like tin Take looking-glass tin, two ounces of quicksilver, & melt the looking-glass tin into a new
 with a piece of tin. For making aquafortis Take a half-septier of vinegar with one ounce of verdigris, & one ounce
 For making aquafortis Take a half-septier of vinegar with one ounce of verdigris, & one ounce of copperas & one ounce
 half-septier of vinegar with one ounce of verdigris, & one ounce of copperas & one ounce of solle, then put them
 ounce of verdigris, & one ounce of copperas & one ounce of solle, then put them together in a glass vial.
 safekeeping. For making gray wood One needs to take three half-septiers of iron filings, xviii s deniers'-worth of glass alum, &
 needs to take three half-septiers of iron filings, xviii s deniers'-worth of glass alum, & as much green copperas, six deniers'-worth
 deniers'-worth of glass alum, & as much green copperas, six deniers'-worth of verdigris, am pitch, & a quart of cuyr currier's
 green copperas, six deniers'-worth of verdigris, am pitch, & a quart of cuyr currier's water, and if you cannot find it,
 For gilding with or moleu One needs to take a shell of gold and, before you want to work with it,
 for horn, as the case may be, four or five days , & then boil it where it has soaked for
 it where it has soaked for the space of one hour , & take it out of the oil, and take
 boiling. For making wood green One needs to take one quart of white vinegar & one ounce of green & one
 needs to take one quart of white vinegar & one ounce of green & one ounce of glass alum, all mixed
 of white vinegar & one ounce of green & one ounce of glass alum, all mixed together, and you will put
 then put the pot in a dung heap for fifteen days , and once it is out, you will boil your
 you will boil your substances for the space of three hours . For making wood red Take one quart of old
 space of three hours. For making wood red Take one quart of old urine and three ounces of madder & one
 wood red Take one quart of old urine and three ounces of madder & one ounce of glass alum, and you
 of old urine and three ounces of madder & one ounce of glass alum, and you will put all in your
 do as with green. For making it blue Take one quart of urine as above and one ounce of alum &
 blue Take one quart of urine as above and one ounce of alum & two drams of sal ammoniac & half
 urine as above and one ounce of alum & two drams of sal ammoniac & half an ounce of pastel woad
 ounce of alum & two drams of sal ammoniac & half an ounce of pastel woad flowers, the whole made into powder, and
 do as with green. For making it violet Take one quart of urine & one ounce of alum & two drams
 making it violet Take one quart of urine & one ounce of alum & two drams of sal ammoniac & one
 quart of urine & one ounce of alum & two drams of sal ammoniac & one of lake, & do as
 For making it yellow Take urine as above and two ounces of guesdre woad & one ounce of fustet and two
 as above and two ounces of guesdre woad & one ounce of fustet and two ounces drams of sal ammoniac, &
 of guesdre woad & one ounce of fustet and two ounces drams of sal ammoniac, & do as above. For making
 guesdre woad & one ounce of fustet and two ounces drams of sal ammoniac, & do as above. For making very
 other damp place for the space of eight or ten days . Then when you want to use it, one needs
 then wash it again with white wine, and take three ounces terra merita & a chopin of white wine, and boil
 white wine, and take three ounces terra merita & a chopin of white wine, and boil the substances the space of
 a chopin of white wine, and boil the substances the space of half an hour , & put down your colors on your iron or
 a tablet, or another piece. First, you will take five ounces of eau-de-vie and one ounce of benzoin pestled between two
 First, you will take five ounces of eau-de-vie and one ounce of benzoin pestled between two pieces of paper or card
 a half of these two, namely two & a half ounces . Next take the said benzoin just as coarsely pestled,
 let it rest for the space of one & half days , & then take the said water & put it
 it for something more noble. Another approved varnish Take two ounces of linseed oil & two ounces of petrolle oil and
 approved varnish Take two ounces of linseed oil & two ounces of petrolle oil and two ounces of mastic, the whitest
 linseed oil & two ounces of petrolle oil and two ounces of mastic, the whitest you can find, and of glass
 work that you want to varnish. Another varnish Take one ounce of spike lavender oil & of sang de raiye da
 you will see a beautiful varnish. Another varnish Take one ounce of spike lavender oil & heat it over charcoals, &
 oil & heat it over charcoals, & then take a half ounce of sang dea Raiec & grind it coarsely, and then
 warm horse dung for the space of eight or nine days . For making bronze in the color of steel Take
 of steel Take glass alum & antimony, but one needs twice as much glass alum as antimony, and pestle the whole together in
 with strong vinegar, then soak your bone or horn an hour , & then put it to use. For making bronze
 For making bronze in the color of gold Take six ounces of calcined tin & as much of natural sulfur &
 calcined tin & as much of natural sulfur & six ounces of sal ammoniac, and put the tin to melt in
 it is cooked, & it needs to be for six hours , mind that the fumes do not harm you for
 other vapor will be able to harm you. Or put half a pig’s bladder in front of the face. Tin for
 make plate, which is composed of 9 or ten ten lb of fine lead for one quintal of tin. Some find
 9 or ten ten lb of fine lead for one quintal of tin. Some find that there is nothing better than
 fine substance & fine copper, which is capable of fifty lb of powder, in the shape of a reinforced firkin, and
 nonetheless that the length of the descending pipe should be twice as long as the ascending pipe . This cornet folded back on itself also shows you
 pipe in this manner, such that the trussed-up length is as long as its straight pipe, & nevertheless does not descend as far
 first they imprint it on carton, as thick as one finger , to serve as a pattern, then with a little
 for there is none so fine that it can compass distances as small as those of the small cogwheels . But they make a platform (as they call it)
 divided into several circles, & each circle is divided dinto equal distances marked by a point, and each circle has a certain
 they divide the circle into three & then divide this third part into as many distances as is necessary with regard to the total division of the circle , & make in this manner their division & distribution
 short, for it demonstrates that it is soft. It is half fine latten & half red copper. This long grain is
 that it is soft. It is half fine latten & half red copper. This long grain is called long stalk. Sand
 from the furnace of the silversmiths, quick lime, and flour, ana , moistened according to the art, being the finest possible.
 & render it as if impalpable. And d with one lb of alabaster, one needs one ℥ of sal ammoniac. Mix
 And d with one lb of alabaster, one needs one ℥ of sal ammoniac. Mix well & incorporate everything together, then
 for sand & moisten it, & in three or 4 days it will be green. Next, oil them & keep them
 relief & on the other in hollow, & of the thickness of a coin of forty sous . I cast very hot X Sand from the mine,
 is really thin, put a card or two or three thicknesses of paper underneath, when you want to mold it. In this way
 & molded very neatly. I let it sit an entire night . The next morning, I reheated it little by little,
 little by little, over the course of seven or eight hours (for if possible, no humidity ought to remain in the
 than fine latten. But I think that it is better half copper & half latten, which have been used & have
 But I think that it is better half copper & half latten, which have been used & have been in very
 & other similar things. I have seen this mixture of half and half come out well. To mold well, one ought
 similar things. I have seen this mixture of half and half come out well. To mold well, one ought to cast
 put them on a marble in a cellar. In one night , they had been moistened enough by themselves without dampening
 on porphyry, as much as I could. Then I mixed as much of one as the other & reworked them on porphyry. Next, I moistened it in
 beautiful release, & once mixed with alabaster, pulverized similarly, ii ℥ per lb of alabaster makes it release well. It suffices
 & once mixed with alabaster, pulverized similarly, ii ℥ per lb of alabaster makes it release well. It suffices to moisten
 molding en noyau. It is better to put in 4 ℥ of sal ammoniac per lb, and moisten it in a
 better to put in 4 ℥ of sal ammoniac per lb , and moisten it in a damp place for two
 moisten it in a damp place for two or three days , & so that when you take fistfuls, it holds
 it dry by itself, without fire, for one or two days . Although, if you are in a hurry, you can
 make them roll spoil the pathways of the gardens. And every two years , they do not forget to open the sides of
 is too hot, it turns the bone very red. The proportion of lead & tin is as much of one as
 mold, it risks breaking. Sand Mixture easy to melt One ℥ de part soft tin, one part fine lead, one part
 risks breaking. Sand Mixture easy to melt One ℥ de part soft tin, one part fine lead, one part looking-glass tin
 easy to melt One ℥ de part soft tin, one part fine lead, one part looking-glass tin & one part fixed
 ℥ de part soft tin, one part fine lead, one part looking-glass tin & one part fixed quicksilver makes an alloy
 one part fine lead, one part looking-glass tin & one part fixed quicksilver makes an alloy & a solder so easy
 verd, which a good material does not do. Molding statues Half founder’s earth which founders use & half clay earth g
 do. Molding statues Half founder’s earth which founders use & half clay earth g renders very neatly. Sand from river tellins
 just as I tried, by boiling it one or two hours in a rather large iron pot, putting in, for an
 in a rather large iron pot, putting in, for an ℥ of ☿, ii ℥ of verdet de and vitriol of
 iron pot, putting in, for an ℥ of ☿, ii ℥ of verdet de and vitriol of saltpeter, ana, with sufficient
 ☿, ii ℥ of verdet de and vitriol of saltpeter, ana , with sufficient quantity of old water from farriers. Or
 quantity of old water from farriers. Or else, melt 4 ℥ of tin, & as it cools, purify it of its
 make a hole in it & put in this i ℥ of ☿ & it will come out like tin if
 mercury with the smell of tin, looking-glass tin, fine lead, as much of one as the other , makes a substance that melts very promptly but is
 A long time to cool. Olives They are spoiled if once a month one does not refresh their salt water, which one ought
 quite convenient. To The beautiful skin costs fifty or lx sous & 4 or five dozen grips are made from it.
 skin costs fifty or lx sous & 4 or five dozen grips are made from it. This kind gives a good
 is too hard, one soaks it for one or two hours in not quite lukewarm aquafortis, for if it were too
 A grip of fine gold is worth 18 or 20 sous . The best sword point is the sage leaf form.
 bloodstone The fustée is a square piece of wood three fingers in thickness , of boxwood, which is fitted in the middle of
 or thunder stone The furbisher buys his blades by the dozen , which are not fully drawn by the tang because
 them wavy. Blades from Vienne commonly cost xviii or 19 lb a dozen . The first thing the furbisher does when he gets
 the sword powell with the emery and give it a drop or two of oil, which they spread with the finger
 the rivet breaks. The end is bought ready-made by the dozen , which costs six sous for the small ones, but
 end is bought ready-made by the dozen, which costs six sous for the small ones, but for the the big ones
 the small ones, but for the the big ones 2 carolus . The end this is put either with nails, which
 King’s manner, which are plain The furbishers buy them by dozens , the dozen of plain ones commonly costs x lb.
 which are plain The furbishers buy them by dozens, the dozen of plain ones commonly costs x lb. The worked piece,
 by dozens, the dozen of plain ones commonly costs x lb . The worked piece, 30 sous or depending on its
 plain ones commonly costs x lb. The worked piece, 30 sous or depending on its fashion. The first thing the apprentice
 ready made, a hundred for xv or xx or 30 sous , depending on the distance from the place where they
 be very neat & without any knots & are one finger’s thickness across . Then the furbisher puts them on a small bench,
 with a small narrow plane, one hollows & scrapes it half a foot toward the end of the talan, and the shorter the
 scabbards can be taken. A workman can easily make vi a day . If they are too thick, one thins them a
 or calf. A waxed scabbard is worth at least xxx sous , a cow one xx sous. From a sheep skin,
 is worth at least xxx sous, a cow one xx sous . From a sheep skin, v or vi. Grey guards
 charcoal, & thus one heats them quite strongly for an hour or two, and when the ashes are very hot, one
 would prevent the color from taking. One needs almost one day for preparing, softening & setting the color of water, but
 needs to be thicker & stronger than for painters. A quarteron is worth fifty or lx sous. Gilding with silver One
 ought not to burnish gold. Mastic varnish dry in a half hour Some take 2 ℥ of mastic, a half ℥ of
 Mastic varnish dry in a half hour Some take 2 ℥ of mastic, a half ℥ of turpentine, & a half
 a half hour Some take 2 ℥ of mastic, a half ℥ of turpentine, & a half ℥ of turpentine oil, &
 ℥ of mastic, a half ℥ of turpentine, & a half ℥ of turpentine oil, & eau-de-vie, a little at your discretion
 hot, I put in some subtly ground mastic & around one-third of the oil passed through a sieve l, and let
 in order that the cord marks a straight line, the length of which you will un bord make holes with an
 a little, & having remained there for seven or eight pauses , they take it out and shake it, hitting the
 firkin that one fills with brine. Then, one serves them all year among salads, raw with oil & vinegar, for being thus
 mixed ones. One ought to reheat for one or two hours et p, in thata charcoal fire which lights by itself,
 instead. Varnish Some make the one of mastic with two ounces of mastic and one of clear & white turpentine oil
 that which will remain from the vapor, mix it with as much of the white calcined pebbles . It is true that, in the little furnace, it
 & extinguish them in water or vinegar. Next, take a ℥ of them and pestle them in a totally pure copper
 enough for giving them greenness. At that time, on your ℥ of pebbles, put in three ℥ of good minium, not
 that time, on your ℥ of pebbles, put in three ℥ of good minium, not adulterated by brick & anything else,
 bronze mortar. And on all of this, put in a gros pour ℥ of sel de verre; & some & the
 And on all of this, put in a gros pour ℥ of sel de verre; & some & the common people
 making & increasing the fire. They are made in an hour & a half . A gros of salt on the four ℥ of
 They are made in an hour & a half. A gros of salt on the four ℥ of pebbles & minium.
 & a half. A gros of salt on the four ℥ of pebbles & minium. When one says, for ℥, this
 on one ℥ of
 on one ℥ of the body, & not of the salts & the
 minium. Emerald For ruby take gold leaf Raise your furnace by two tiles all around, because one needs more heat for making rubies
 heat for making rubies than for emeralds. And take one ℥ of white calcined pebbles and put it in a mortar
 it coarsely with the pestle of the same, mix in grain the weight of a grain of gold leaf of what
 with the pestle of the same, mix in grain the weight of a grain of gold leaf of what the painters gild, & grind
 into leaf. n again very well, then add in iii ℥ of minium, & pestle well again all together, & put
 & full of charcoal, and maintain it thus for one day . The first experience that I made of it, it
 a yellow mass, as is vitrified minium alone, & some grains of gold in a mass at the bottom. Try cemented gold and
 the other, for making the heat reverberate. Topaz The same dose is observed for all gemstones, namely one weight of calcined
 Topaz The same dose is observed for all gemstones, namely one weight of calcined pebbles on three of minium , pestling all separately in a copper mortar for emerald
 the topaz are of the same heat, & for an hour & a half on the fire, for they could burn. The ruby en
 it very finely, then put it in a crucible on as much saltpeter & let it boil, & mix them together until
 a great fire. The ruby wants fire for a whole day , and if it does not have enough fire, it
 One holds that rubified antimony makes jacinth. Topaz I melted one part of pumice stone, calcined & pulverized, & tr with three parts of minium , and the stone pulverized in a steel ver f
 vinegar. Provisions for the work of Colchis 7 retorts 2 lb of ☿ One measure of coarse salt 6 terrines without
 unleaded pots for calcining 2 alembics for distilling vinegar 4 pots of good vinegar 3 or 4 lamps 2 lb of
 4 pots of good vinegar 3 or 4 lamps 2 lb of cotton One pair of small scissors For the furnace
 scissors For the furnace A coffer with a stone ten square thumbs in size and one foot thick, pierced in the middle
 with a stone ten square thumbs in size and one foot thick, pierced in the middle 2 earthenware boxes or pots
 lamps to heat the furnace A fire-steel Ciment royal One lb & a half of vitriol As much saltpeter As much rock alum Glass
 a pear or round pyramid, of the thickness of a small knife back , round on the bottom without bending like vials, its
 like vials, its opening of such a size that a Dutch quill can just about fit in, & with a lip at
 lip at the end. Thus of a height of seven fingers’ width . Painting on crystal or glass They paint in oil
 leave to wilt in there in the shade for a day . Then put in it the first substance of wine,
 of wine, & leave it to rest three or four days , and next express the whole into another vessel, &
 very same substance of wine, put in seven or eight infusions of new flowers. Next, leave the last infusion in the
 or eight infusions of new flowers. Next, leave the last infusion in the sun for a month. Next, distil it through
 new flowers. Next, leave the last infusion in the sun for a month . Next, distil it through an alembic. Ne And take
 Next, distil it through an alembic. Ne And take ii ounces of this water in two or three spoonfuls of white
 take ii ounces of this water in two or three spoonfuls of white wine, but this is for the elderly. Paul
 & simmer, but once it is hot, put in a quarter as much of the newest wax you can. Once melted,
 as long as it takes you to say one 9 paternoster , and as you say them, wash this composition with
 water, stirring all the while. Having said the first 9 paternoster , pour out the first water & put in new
 put in new one, & wash & stir the composition for the time it takes you to say 8 paternoster , and the 3rd time for as long as 7,
 doing the same as above, until the last & single paternoster of nine. Then you shall have a soft & white
 & white ointment, with which you shall anoint the burn for the space of 9 days . But do not apply it any longer than this,
 your flesh to grow excessively. You b shall bandage yourself twice a day , & each time you shall wash your face with
 sand with which one first covers the medal to the thickness of a teston . For making colors run Mix vinegar with a little
 into aquafortis in a matrass, and let it rest two hours without putting it on the fire. Put in the very
 had been parted from silver. For etching on iron One ℥ of verdet, ii ℥ of coarse salt & a little
 silver. For etching on iron One ℥ of verdet, ii ℥ of coarse salt & a little sublimate, or else grind
 Then, to etch it & make the water, take a liard’s worth of verdet, & put in twice as much coarse salt,
 water, take a liard’s worth of verdet, & put in twice as much coarse salt, & about four grains of sal ammoniac, &
 put in twice as much coarse salt, & about four grains of sal ammoniac, & six grains of sublimate, & the
 salt, & about four grains of sal ammoniac, & six grains of sublimate, & the water ought not to be hot.
 hot. Good mixture to color gold Sulfur & small gravel, as much of one as of the other , & the third part of soufr salt, & as
 as much of one as of the other, & the third part of soufr salt, & as much terra merita as sulfur.
 it to temper in white wine for one or two hours , then scratch it & leave the part you want
 reload it a little more on top. Against dogs’ mange Half an ℥ of stavesacre for common dogs, & one ℥ for big
 Half an ℥ of stavesacre for common dogs, & one ℥ for big ones, as fine powder beaten with two egg
 fine powder beaten with two egg oil whites & one quarteron of oil. Make them drink on an empty stomach, having
 nothing uncovered but the leaf, which in three or 4 days will give you an indication whether the shield should take,
 it will be green. Leave your graft seven or eight days thus, then unbind it & join it well to the
 the tree that exceeds your tree, ne three or 4 fingers above the shield for the first time, and apr then,
 the back is intact. This type of grafting is practiced from mid-May , so that the trees have already budded & made
 that the trees have already budded & made new issue, until the beginning of August , and so that the trees are in sap. Almond
 pitted fruit, which are the best there, they are grafted in the month of January . Generally trees with pitted fruit, like mericoton peaches, are
 cage with canvas. One needs to feed it the first day , giving it taking it out from its cage into
 in order that it wiggles. And at five or six paces from the hedge where it sings, make a hole in
 until they have been quite red for one or two hours , & pestle them & pass them finely through a
 ga, as is said here, keeps well one or two months , well pressed, in a dry place, if it is
 you can. Being thus p fine, put it, in a good amount , in a cauldron or skillet over an open flame,
 exhalations, in the middle & around, as long as a finger . Seeing it in this state, remove it from the
 which crayfish catchers experience. The sand mixture is of two parts of plaster, pulverized & reheated as said, & of one
 of plaster, pulverized & reheated as said, & of one part of tile, reddened et p pre in a good fire
 first cooking & then finely pulverized, and of feather alum, half as much as of the brick, namely two full crucibles
 half as much as of the brick, namely two full crucibles of plaster, one of brick & a half of feather
 must be set ablaze in a glassmaker’s fournaise for four days . Molds can only be used once because for delicate
 white c silk. It is in pieces long as a finger , & is very breakable & wooly as down. The
 with sal ammoniac water. By putting in a piece the size of a walnut in a large bottle of water, and thus one mixes
 the sand remains long enough crucible remains red for a quarter of an hour . This is done more to cleanse it than for
 them from above. It is necessary that blast-pipes be 4 fingers above the sole of the forge. Snakes for molding When
 are very great. It abstains from eating seven or eight days , once it has devoured some frog. It can swallow
 It can keep a frog engulfed for two to three hours & renders it up completely alive. Toad If by chance
 some melted wax. Killing snakes for molding Some put a drop of aquafortis in the mouth, which stuns them well, such
 render soubs from its bottom, which is five to six fingers from the end of its tail, all nasty and venomous
 thin. One ought to put it to death only a quarter of an hour before you want to mold. When it has eaten something,
 more tin, much more than lead, namely less than the fourth part lead for three parts tin . And still, one puts lead only to form an
 molding with fine and new lead, I put into one lb two ounces of fine tin. And when molding with fine
 fine and new lead, I put into one lb two ounces of fine tin. And when molding with fine tin, I
 And when molding with fine tin, I put in two ounces of fine lead for one pound. I made plants &
 I put in two ounces of fine lead for one pound . I made plants & snakes just like nature. S
 sizes, according to the molds that you want to make; thick like cord, smaller , & thin p, like the thick strings of a
 you want to make; thick like cord, smaller , & thin p, like the thick strings of a spinet, for the small works . Once de reheated, you make clamps from it to
 is firmer than that of latten. Sal ammoniac wateer The size of two chestnuts of pulverized sal ammoniac suffices in a pot of water,
 of two chestnuts of pulverized sal ammoniac suffices in a pot of water, and to the tongue, you find the water
 everything is reheated as said above, take four 4 full crucibles of plaster, two 2 of brick, & one of feather
 take four parts of plaster, two of brick, & one of feather alum.
 it therein until it is dead, which will be in an hour or a half . But if you are in a hurry To know
 makers use, which should be a little thicker than a thumb . And on this cake, arrange your animal, aya imitating
 the point there, not to corrupt it. But place wax, as much as a grain of millet , between the body & ce qui the end of
 will be for a common snake as thick as two thumbs , in order that when you cast in your wetted
 these, pour some common fountain water, & mix into it as much sal ammoniac water as can be held in an egg , # composed as mentioned. If you want to cast
 carefully done fai, let it set, which will take a quarter of an hour . Then, release the clay circle, which can be used
 la pre one tempered batch; it is the best. # or two eggs , because there is no risk if there will be
 done, dip le rev your mold your mold, for the length of a paternoster in water, not du the uncovered side but opposite, &
 follows the more delicate parts. So, leave it for a quarter of an hour to set, then remove the circle & the clay cake.
 do, because these corrupt animals in themselves stink within one day . Having left your molds one or two es days
 one day. Having left your molds one or two es days to dry, for they stay damp for a good month,
 days to dry, for they stay damp for a good month , make the vents on one half. + Note that
 second cast, were you to leave your mold for one day or a night without opening it, you would need to
 you to leave your mold for one day or a night without opening it, you would need to then dip it
 such that between the snake and animal there is a line of distance D, in which enters the second batch of
 thing, put in some fine tin, not at all the quarter part of lead. And make sure that your mold is hottish,
 part of lead. And make sure that your mold is hottish, such that you can hold it in your hand when you want to cast. As for the alloyed tin,
 leave the charcoals thus to kindle by themselves for a half hour , so that they heat little by little and not
 does not become as porous. A way to grind enamel gold very delicate gold rose leaves and others After you have
 fine tin ought to exceed the lead more than three parts . And if it is a thick & coarse material,
 material, the lead ought to exceed by more than three parts . Heat the mostly tin mixture until it is almost
 your crucible from the fire, throw in two or three grains of rosin, & for one lb & a half or
 in two or three grains of rosin, & for one lb & a half or two of lead or tin, put with the rosin as much
 or tin, put with the rosin as much looking-glass tin as the size of a hazelnut with its shell , & mix & cast. And make sure that there
 it is alloyed d’un with latten. Latten alloys with a quarter of copper, and one puts it in like in copper.
 & is exceed everywhere by the height of two good fingers the top of the such plant. And having secured the
 fine tin if en on one puts in in one ounce of it, that is to say, i ℥ of looking-glass
 in one ounce of it, that is to say, i ℥ of looking-glass tin in one lb of fine tin. Sal
 is to say, i ℥ of looking-glass tin in one lb of fine tin. Sal ammoniac It Sal ammoniac water is
 moistened it with sal ammoniac water, made of sal ammoniac, as much as two walnuts , in a bottle of common water, the same size
 much as two walnuts, in a bottle of common water, the same size as a bottle in which one boils tisane , or in a good pot of water, so that
 d the water moderately salty. I mixed throughout water of half a glass of sal ammoniac, two othe two au t silver spoonfuls
 a glass of sal ammoniac, two othe two au t silver spoonfuls of eau-de-vie. J’a Having thus moistened the sand in such
 them to cool. I took some fine tin f, one lb , & one ounce of lead, fine & new. I
 I took some fine tin f, one lb, & one ounce of lead, fine & new. I melted it in a
 And wanting to cast, I threw in two or three grains of something like pitch rosin, & at the same time
 something like pitch rosin, & at the same time the size of a bean of looking-glass tin, & I mixed, & stirred the crucible
 does not overtax the material, and must not exceed the thickness of a the width of a grain of wheat ; likewise for tin, which wants to be cast very
 four or five times, & until your gold has the thickness of a piece of paper or something similar, & all the scales will always show
 some more feather alum. And mix in not quite the third part of crocum ferri. However, its quantity cannot be harmful, for
 that your crocum had previously been in the glassmaker’s fornaise, three or four days and three days and three nights , in a flat box where it should not be
 not at all in gold. It has not been forty years that one knows this in Germany. Sublimate is commonly employed
 you will feed it in this way three or four times a day & will also make it drink. The next morning, you
 of a hard-boiled egg, and change it two or three times a day , for it will not eat it if it is
 & if it is not fresh. And if it goes half a day without eating, one needs to feed it as before &
 vigor & growing. For if you were to take them when their season is past or when they are starting to wilt, they would not
 the flower, e imitating in that the flow of an hourglass . And when the flower is as if half covered,
 box can contain. That being thus arranged, expose it for several days to hot sun. And while the flower dries, the sand,
 so thin. Next, dry it well in the sun for several days to remove all humidity from it, and ventilate it like
 your animals as said and compose the same sand two parts of out of 4 parts of plaster, of two parts
 compose the same sand two parts of out of 4 parts of plaster, of two parts reheated brick, & one part
 parts of out of 4 parts of plaster, of two parts reheated brick, & one part reheated feather alum, and mix
 parts of plaster, of two parts reheated brick, & one part reheated feather alum, and mix it well. Then, having been
 thus, and you wishing to mold it, take the three parts of an earthenware bowl, from which the peasants eat their
 wishing to mold it, take the three parts of an earthenware bowl, from which the peasants eat their soup , of the aforesaid sand, & add to it pure
 it pure feather alum, reheated & pulverized in the mortar, as much as you can take with 4 fingers and the thumb , or a small double handful. Then, mix mix well
 can take with 4 fingers and the thumb, or a small double handful . Then, mix mix well & wet with a little
 much of it. Some buy it five sous for a denier . I have used silver from the Capital Before binding
 A means di far correr lotnegra Take white arsenic, two ounces , 2 ℥ Orpiment or yellow arsenic, two ounces, 2
 di far correr lotnegra Take white arsenic, two ounces, 2 ℥ Orpiment or yellow arsenic, two ounces, 2 ℥ Aes ustum,
 arsenic, two ounces, 2 ℥ Orpiment or yellow arsenic, two ounces , 2 ℥ Aes ustum, two ounces, 2 ℥ fine
 ounces, 2 ℥ Orpiment or yellow arsenic, two ounces, 2 ℥ Aes ustum, two ounces, 2 ℥ fine copper filings, moderately
 or yellow arsenic, two ounces, 2 ℥ Aes ustum, two ounces , 2 ℥ fine copper filings, moderately ground, 2 ℥
 arsenic, two ounces, 2 ℥ Aes ustum, two ounces, 2 ℥ fine copper filings, moderately ground, 2 ℥ Antimony, 2 ℥
 two ounces, 2 ℥ fine copper filings, moderately ground, 2 ℥ Antimony, 2 ℥ Rock salt, 2 ℥ Raw tartar, 2
 ℥ fine copper filings, moderately ground, 2 ℥ Antimony, 2 ℥ Rock salt, 2 ℥ Raw tartar, 2 ℥ Sandiver, 2
 moderately ground, 2 ℥ Antimony, 2 ℥ Rock salt, 2 ℥ Raw tartar, 2 ℥ Sandiver, 2 ℥ Saltpeter, half, that
 Antimony, 2 ℥ Rock salt, 2 ℥ Raw tartar, 2 ℥ Sandiver, 2 ℥ Saltpeter, half, that is to say 1
 Rock salt, 2 ℥ Raw tartar, 2 ℥ Sandiver, 2 ℥ Saltpeter, half, that is to say 1 ℥ Coarse common
 2 ℥ Raw tartar, 2 ℥ Sandiver, 2 ℥ Saltpeter, half , that is to say 1 ℥ Coarse common salt
 Sandiver, 2 ℥ Saltpeter, half, that is to say 1 ℥ Coarse common salt melted, half, 1 ℥ Sublimate, half, 1
 that is to say 1 ℥ Coarse common salt melted, half , 1 ℥ Sublimate, half, 1 ℥ Borax, half, 1
 to say 1 ℥ Coarse common salt melted, half, 1 ℥ Sublimate, half, 1 ℥ Borax, half, 1 ℥ Sal ammoniac,
 1 ℥ Coarse common salt melted, half, 1 ℥ Sublimate, half , 1 ℥ Borax, half, 1 ℥ Sal ammoniac, as
 Coarse common salt melted, half, 1 ℥ Sublimate, half, 1 ℥ Borax, half, 1 ℥ Sal ammoniac, as much as borax,
 salt melted, half, 1 ℥ Sublimate, half, 1 ℥ Borax, half , 1 ℥ Sal ammoniac, as much as borax, that
 half, 1 ℥ Sublimate, half, 1 ℥ Borax, half, 1 ℥ Sal ammoniac, as much as borax, that is to say
 Sublimate, half, 1 ℥ Borax, half, 1 ℥ Sal ammoniac, as much as borax , that is to say 1 ℥ Take these substances,
 ammoniac, as much as borax, that is to say 1 ℥ Take these substances, of the best kind you can find.
 that is so large that the substances can have the fourth or fifth part as empty space. Cover the crucible with a good tile,
 & the fumes of it are dangerous. If within 12 hours it is not melted and mixed, it will not be
 made. Goldsmiths who have knowledge of this substance sell a denier of it for 5 sous to other goldsmiths, & especially
 of this substance sell a denier of it for 5 sous to other goldsmiths, & especially to those who work in
 grain is like broken steel. Your lute being dry, put, in the early morning , your crucible in a four à vent, & at
 the full vigor of the fire your substances for 12 hours or a natural day. Make each time a good quantity
 of the fire your substances for 12 hours or a natural day . Make each time a good quantity of this substance,
 hurt you. And before working at it, take in the morning good buttered toast, and hold the said butter, or zedoary,
 suffice you for a long time, when it has been for a whole day on a gentle gentle fire at the beginning & invigorated
 entirely red and hot, quenched in water. Gold is a quarter heavier than lead. When gold reaches its perfect heat, it is green
 thin at the entrance of the animal & of the thickness of a knife . 🝋 From small rolls, you make your gates and
 However, try well-clarified sugar. One needs to soak for one night or one day the plaster mold before casting the sugar,
 sugar. One needs to soak for one night or one day the plaster mold before casting the sugar, in order that
 know. + One needs for the mold to have soaked one day and one night in cold water for, and to be humid, when you
 who use it to cast in gold ven buy the ounce for forty or fifty sous. It does not harden the
 in gold ven buy the ounce for forty or fifty sous . It does not harden the molds, and, in scraping,
 scales, loops of iron, emery & things that withstand several days of great firing. Animal bones are not so difficult to
 take care that it is at a distance of three good fingers from the wall of the forge. In this way, it
 it is brittle, seeing cracked & burst lumps, take the size of a hazelnut of arsenic & two times as much of raw tartar,
 lumps, take the size of a hazelnut of arsenic & two times as much of raw tartar, coarsely pulverized, for in this way, they
 mold & throw on top of your well-melted silver, the size of a pea or thereabouts, some of this metallic grain, which will immediately
 only use common bullitoyre, which is tartar & common salt, nearly as much of one as the other . But I have seen an excellent German working thus.
 bottom, when it is firmly pressed, a little mass like half an arquebus ball made in the genitals and full of very venomous spurs.
 to mold them, and they dry them in an oven after the bread has been taken out . And they always remain thus, as much for snakes,
 flowers, & promptly dry them in the oven, which is hot enough, like when one takes out the bread . And it should stay there a day & a
 one takes out the bread. And it should stay there a day & a night in order that it is chau dry, for otherwise it
 heed that the oven not be too harsh, but rather like the heat of the sun in June , otherwise the animals cook. Once dry, do not wet
 prevent this, if you cast thin, the alloy of one ℥ d’est of lead for one lb of tin is good.
 the alloy of one ℥ d’est of lead for one lb of tin is good. But if you cast with lead
 with lead for a thick thing, one needs for one lb of the latter, two ℥ of tin, for the lead,
 thing, one needs for one lb of the latter, two ℥ of tin, for the lead, being fatty & weighty, carries
 way that it can be furnished with three or 4 fingers all around, and especially at the bottom of the mold,
 very good vinegar & left it therea two or three days , stirring it several times each day. Finally, I boiled
 & left it therea two or three days, stirring it several times each day . Finally, I boiled it & reddened in the pot
 between the fingers. I put some in the sand, a half as much as feather alum. I tempered the sand quite
 as hard as you fancy u, adding to it a drop of turpentine to bind it. Next, mix in whatever color
 tin, crocum. For making ☀ run Verdigris & sal ammoniac, as much of one as the other , borax & saltpeter, as much of one as the
 as much of one as the other, borax & saltpeter, as much of one as the other . But the s borax & sel armo saltpeter together
 s borax & sel armo saltpeter together must only weigh half of the others , that is to say, as much together as the
 also. Couleur for gold or mixture Verdigris & sal ammoniac, as much of one as the other , & as much as a bean of saltpeter. For
 sal ammoniac, as much of one as the other, & as much as a bean of saltpeter. For if you put a quantity in it,
 least, it is necessary that it have four or five fingers of length. You can make it wide up until the
 it enough. Make sure also that it is distanced three fingers from the wall of the forge, in order that it
 in order to see well inside. Throw in it the size of a bean of borax, & blow inside in jolts with the small
 completely n red sand. One can cast two or three lb of gold. a mirror. And when you want to cast,
 ☿ sublimate of Venice, true & not arsenic sublimate, a pea , aes ustum, a pea, sal ammoniac, a pea. Pulverize
 true & not arsenic sublimate, a pea, aes ustum, a pea , sal ammoniac, a pea. Pulverize everything separately, & next
 sublimate, a pea, aes ustum, a pea, sal ammoniac, a pea . Pulverize everything separately, & next mix everything in a
 do not want to be oiled. Hot water should be of such heat that you cannot hold your finger there without feeling strong heat . Temper your sand thicker for flat medals & solids
 have put in use for lizards & snakes is two ℥ of fine tin for one lb of new & unadulterated
 & snakes is two ℥ of fine tin for one lb of new & unadulterated lead. The mold is made of
 they ought not to forget to throw inside, as well, as much as a bean of looking-glass tin for each lb of lead, and that
 as much as a bean of looking-glass tin for each lb of lead, and that it e should be red like
 thin things. And the alloy of fine tin is one ℥ of new lead for one lb of this. Large molds
 fine tin is one ℥ of new lead for one lb of this. Large molds should be placed in very tight
 be very hot because they will burn the cuttlefish bone. Test for this effect with paper. If it turns the paper red, it is enough, it is good to cast, but if it blackens the paper, it is too hot. If you want to cast a written paper, make your
 to cast a written paper, make your alloy with plom half lead & half tin, & as soon as it is
 written paper, make your alloy with plom half lead & half tin, & as soon as it is melted, cast between
 mold the animal that you propose, & no more, and half as much charcoal, pestled & finely passed through a linen
 it will be well melted & liquid, take, for a bowl with handles full of melted wax, as much sulfur la as a
 with handles full of melted wax, as much sulfur la as a large walnut . Pulverize it, melt it over a slow fire, &
 wax has passed its high heat, which you will recognize when it no longer smokes , when it makes large tracts se re pulling at
 heat, which you will recognize when it no longer smokes, when it makes large tracts se re pulling at the edges, & motionless & close to one to the other . For, if you were to cast too hot, you
 several times. But before you use it, soak it for a good hour in cold water & for at least as long in
 it for a good hour in cold water & for at least as long in water so hot, that, at the beginning, you cannot hold your finger in it . And q take heed that it does not imbibe
 well managed. But it is good to soak it one night or one day before casting in it, in order that
 it is good to soak it one night or one day before casting in it, in order that it be well
 end, heated it well without reddening it. I let it cool in such a way that I could hold my finger to it without burning myself . I made an alloy of 4 ℥ of tin
 it without burning myself. I made an alloy of 4 ℥ of tin & six deniers of lead. I cast red,
 made an alloy of 4 ℥ of tin & six deniers of lead. I cast red, and it came out well.
 it came out well. Next, I put in for 4 ℥ of tin, xii deniers of lead; it came out very
 Next, I put in for 4 ℥ of tin, xii deniers of lead; it came out very well. When there is
 moderately like a very thick mortar. Mix in it about half horse dung, & then have it beaten well. Next, mix
 & then have it beaten well. Next, mix in a third part of discarded cloth waste or shearings of cloth, and beat
 When they are better mortified & rested two or three days , they bend and are handled better. animal eyes of
 it would burn the bone & come out lumpy. And to know when it is at a good heat, dip a little piece of twisted paper into it. If it blackens it without lighting, it is at a good heat. But if it burns it & catches fire there, it is too hot . Gold & silver are able to be cast well
 its flower, its buds, and its leaves, was of one lb of fine tin mixed with two ounces of lead. If
 was of one lb of fine tin mixed with two ounces of lead. If there is some flashing, repair with a
 those better reheated. Crucible Take heed that it is three fingers from fe the mouth of the bellows, & that the
 Once well heated, I cast in it two or three grains, like peas , of sal ammoniac. This clarified it like a mirror.
 it cool, then put it to the whitening, of one part raw tartar & of one half common salt. Once well
 the whitening, of one part raw tartar & of one half common salt. Once well boiled, I rubbed it with a
 is all its strength. The whitening is made with one part pulverized tartar & a half of common salt. Molding the
 whitening is made with one part pulverized tartar & a half of common salt. Molding the foot of the bittern, or
 belly a hole, from side to side, which, inside, is of such capacity that the end of a little finger can almost enter it , widening like a clervoise the outside of the hole.
 fashion, to make a mold well, one really needs three days . Take heed in hollow & fanciful molds to have
 make it reheat until it is very red. Or leave overnight in a good fire until the morning . It will be very soft for engraving on it
 pieces. Gold solder They take, for one gold denier, one grain of the fine alloy, like old douzains are. Molding a
 alloys of tin and lead For hollow things like turtles, half fine lead and half tin. For flowers, almost all tin,
 lead For hollow things like turtles, half fine lead and half tin. For flowers, almost all tin, namely a lb of
 and half tin. For flowers, almost all tin, namely a lb of fine tin and two ℥ of fine lead. For
 all tin, namely a lb of fine tin and two ℥ of fine lead. For lizards that are as thick as
 For lizards that are as thick as one or two fingers , almost all lead, namely a lb of fine lead
 as one or two fingers, almost all lead, namely a lb of fine lead and 4 ℥ es of fine tin.
 all lead, namely a lb of fine lead and 4 ℥ es of fine tin. Molds They are less subject to
 & then adapt a circle of soft clay aultr, two fingers high, around the hole, like for other molds. And then
 the wax, the hole does not become obstructed. One needs half tallow & half black wax. All very thick pieces come
 hole does not become obstructed. One needs half tallow & half black wax. All very thick pieces come out better in
 is better to mold ault cast your lead an alloy half of lead & half of tin, especially for hollow things.
 ault cast your lead an alloy half of lead & half of tin, especially for hollow things. For, if you only
 Maistre Alexandre says that he has never gone wrong with half tin & half lead for things weighty & with the
 that he has never gone wrong with half tin & half lead for things weighty & with the thickness of the
 tin & half lead for things weighty & with the thickness of the back of a knife . If there is crocum, the joints hardly appear, &
 things that presuppose being large enough, cast your alloy of half lead & half fine tin. There is more work in
 being large enough, cast your alloy of half lead & half fine tin. There is more work in molding a turtle
 & lizards), let them rest remain dead one or two days to have them more handleable. For they stay rigid after
 & one finds there too much copper. Others solder with half silver & half fine copper. Iron scales Once well pulverized
 there too much copper. Others solder with half silver & half fine copper. Iron scales Once well pulverized & ground on
 out very neat. It is true that lead mixed with half of tin was very hot, because the medal was thick.
 thick a gate. It suffices for the gate to have half of its thickness . But if it is thin, give it a gate
 one prepares to gild with burnished gold, five or six days , until it is not at all lumpy. # nota
 filings, well cleaned & washed, in an iron case, two fingers high & covered, & redden it thus in a reverberatory
 washed it in good vinegar for the space of a day . And it will be well burnt p & clean,
 to the temple of Delphi pateras aureas sex pondo 30 talentorum . Gold vases Herodotus. Halyattes, the father of Croesus, pateram
 the ch frost, one lays them bare at the roots during winter in order that the winter the cold slows them and
 them bare at the roots during winter in order that the winter the cold slows them and that, leblossoming later, the flowers
 trees In Spain, one lays them bare at the roots during winter , & in summer one plants them well with earth.
 one lays them bare at the roots during winter, & in summer one plants them well with earth. Bittern foot To mold
 something flat & leave it thus to dry a few days , because, in drying, the scales appear coarser & the
 through this means it is neater. Perfumer They readily put half of amber & half of musk & very little civet,
 is neater. Perfumer They readily put half of amber & half of musk & very little civet, because amber always overtakes
 And having put in a small silver bowl a silver spoonful of flower oil, or lacking that, ben oil, that is
 will remain there without lumps. Once all melted, put in the size of a pine nut of civet, & make it melt, & mix it well
 of silver, and I made the alloy out of 4 reals , of 20 sous from Spain, & a coin of
 I made the alloy out of 4 reals, of 20 sous from Spain , & a coin of xx sous from France. Blowing
 of 20 sous from Spain, & a coin of xx sous from France . Blowing When you melt silver & gold, do not
 it is necessary to let the glue dry for one day without touching it. Stance of animals Not only with iron
 needs to mainly put this lute on the joints. Silver When it quivers once melted, it is a sign that it is quite
 which is even better. Some are of fifteen or seventeen lb & ch are loaded with two & a half lb
 lb & ch are loaded with two & a half lb of good grain powder, & they are for applying on
 doors. Others are of the weight of 25 to 27 lb and are loaded with 4 lb of powder. Others weigh
 of 25 to 27 lb and are loaded with 4 lb of powder. Others weigh 45 lb & are loaded with
 are loaded with 4 lb of powder. Others weigh 45 lb & are loaded with eight lb of powder. And thus
 powder. Others weigh 45 lb & are loaded with eight lb of powder. And thus they are formed according to the
 burst. At the breech one gives them Those of 45 lb have a thickness of eight lines at the breech &
 them Those of 45 lb have a thickness of eight lines at the breech & become thinner on the inside toward
 on the inside toward the muzzle, which is of 4 lines . They are xiii thumbs breadth long & seven in
 the muzzle, which is of 4 lines. They are xiii thumbs breadth long & seven in diameter at the muzzle & opening.
 in diameter at the muzzle & opening. Those of 27 lb or thereabouts are ix inches long & six in diameter
 & opening. Those of 27 lb or thereabouts are ix inches long & six in diameter at the muzzle. At the
 diameter at the muzzle. At the breech, they are vi lines thick, & 3 at the muzzle. The ones weighing 17
 thick, & 3 at the muzzle. The ones weighing 17 lb are 8 inches long & five at the muzzle. One
 at the muzzle. The ones weighing 17 lb are 8 inches long & five at the muzzle. One covers them all
 is made like a gimlet, namely by three or 4 fingers , which goes entirely l into the door. When the
 to take cover. The small petards of 16 or 17 lb are attached promptly with a short hooked peg made like
 by hand just as one does with petards of 27 lb , but then one only puts in three lb of
 of 27 lb, but then one only puts in three lb of powder. It must certainly be a strong door if
 It must certainly be a strong door if the seventeen lb petard does not blow it up. Some use little bells
 attaching a small petard with ear of fifteen or xvii lb for a common door or window. B. This is a
 This is a larg common petard of 27 or 30 lb pierced at the breech, through which a large iron peg
 Iron fork made in the form of pincers of the height of a man , to quickly place the mortar without a peg. It
 large holes close to one another. O. Crutches of the height of a man , which it is necessary to carry to quickly put
 plague Take, against pestilential fever or poison or plague, an écu’s weight of your opiate soaked in scabious or bugloss water or
