 des Escrivains by St Jacques de la Boucherie, currier. Try pastel woad flowers. List The harvester that leaves some ears is not
 Romae 1554 Les Annales de Normandie For loosening the belly Prunes of Saint Antonin, & if you like you want put
 if you like you want put among them leaves of mallow & gilliflower, adding in sugar &, if one wants, a
 like you want put among them leaves of mallow & gilliflower , adding in sugar &, if one wants, a little
 gilliflower, adding in sugar &, if one wants, a little cinnamon for the stomach. Or else marshmallow root in a chicken
 one wants, a little cinnamon for the stomach. Or else marshmallow root in a chicken broth. The fresh kind is more
 The fresh kind is more mollifying. Beating syrup of sweet jujubes with water & taking it in the morning loosens the
 pains Turpentine oil, oil of Jacob, and salt extracted from cabbage ash. List of books Practica, cioè nova inventione di contegiare,
 and put in one ounce of subtly ground vermilion with walnut oil, and if you add in a little Venice laque
 Black varnish for sword guard, bands for trunks, &c Take linseed oil or more cheaply, walnut oil, and rid it of
 bands for trunks, &c Take linseed oil or more cheaply, walnut oil, and rid it of grease with garlic & onions
 more cheaply, walnut oil, and rid it of grease with garlic & onions +hog’s fennel, some also add bread crusts, which
 walnut oil, and rid it of grease with garlic & onions +hog’s fennel, some also add bread crusts, which you will
 and rid it of grease with garlic & onions + hog’s fennel , some also add bread crusts, which you will boil
 lb of the oil thus boiled the size of a walnut of black pitch & a double handful of grains of
 a walnut of black pitch & a double handful of grains of wheat , without removing the garlic & onions, and let it
 a double handful of grains of wheat, without removing the garlic & onions, and let it boil together for a good
 handful of grains of wheat, without removing the garlic & onions , and let it boil together for a good quarter
 three paternoster beads of jet among the rest. Some consider walnut oil better. If there is a lot of varnish, it
 lb of galipot, which costs 4 sous, & some peeled garlic cloves. This varnish in and of itself is not black,
 harnesses or removing the bands from trunks Take varnish of spike lavender oil & mix in soot black or lampblack, & without
 does not dry as soon. Varnish of iron etchers Take linseed oil or walnut oil &, in place of black pitch,
 as soon. Varnish of iron etchers Take linseed oil or walnut oil &, in place of black pitch, you will put
 or sauce on the engraved object with a sponge or linen & leave it thus for xx4 hours & it will
 wood. And once the last is dry, rub it with prele , which is a plant otherwise called horsetail, to render
 rub it with prele, which is a plant otherwise called horsetail , to render it well polished. Next take fine boli
 of the other, also lamb tallow the size of a bean or a pea depending on the quantity of bole, and
 also lamb tallow the size of a bean or a pea depending on the quantity of bole, and a little willow
 pea depending on the quantity of bole, and a little willow charcoal, or as much as the tallow, & half a
 charcoal, or as much as the tallow, & half a walnut shell full of half-burned saffron. Some put in a little
 the tallow, & half a walnut shell full of half-burned saffron . Some put in a little candy sugar. Grind all
 with it de, grind Venice laque platte on marble with walnut or linseed oil. Once ground, mix turpentine or spike lavender
 de, grind Venice laque platte on marble with walnut or linseed oil. Once ground, mix turpentine or spike lavender varnish &
 with walnut or linseed oil. Once ground, mix turpentine or spike lavender varnish & apply on the gold with the paintbrush. Brazilwood
 lavender varnish & apply on the gold with the paintbrush. Brazilwood & laque ronde die. For green, temper verdigris with walnut
 Brazilwood & laque ronde die. For green, temper verdigris with walnut or linseed oil & grind it, next mix in turpentine
 laque ronde die. For green, temper verdigris with walnut or linseed oil & grind it, next mix in turpentine varnish and
 & grind it, next mix in turpentine varnish and not spike lavender varnish, which is not suitable for verdigris. If you want
 who works seated, having his furnace the size of a carnation pot before him, breaks it off & continues. This is
 of copper or latten is made on engraved & carved service tree wood, if one wants to spend less. And next, the
 its mastic or glue in itself, as do sap-green & saffron . Fish glue or isinglass and mouth glue It is
 burnish it. Against windy colic Take a dozen dried common walnuts & throw them one after another into a good brazier
 strain it, & pour half of it, for six extinguished walnuts are for one dose. Excellent cure against the suffocation of
 utatur per injectionem. Lettering of gold on paper Write with fig tree milk then let it dry a little, next lay the
 very beautiful & will have almost no crust. Plowman Because millet is by nature very dry, harvesters beat it most often
 it until the sun is approaching midday. Quickly after the millet is cut, one needs to plow the earth because the
 it & makes it lean as much as if the millet was still standing. The ground where the millet has been
 if the millet was still standing. The ground where the millet has been sown diminishes much in its fertility & c,
 one makes after that. But above all the grain called pomole in Gascony or baillard in France, makes the earth shake
 But above all the grain called pomole in Gascony or baillard in France, makes the earth shake seven years later, according
 earth shake seven years later, according to the common saying. Beans improve & correct the soil, provided that one lets the
 You know, as with scrapings of the said horn, the roses can be imitated. The horn colors for this jasper want
 jasper want to have a base with clear turpentine or spike lavender varnish. And colors matte in body are not so appropriate
 very beautiful. One needs to oil the unpainted reverse with spike lavender oil. You can encrust beds with it & on the
 yet with ceruse, which is appropriate for distemper and oil. Roses These are counterfeited either with the scrapings of horn used
 lead white with glair of egg & peelings from the fig tree . Or better, varnish your work with white varnish. Also,
 or thereabouts, intermixing it as if S.S.S with branches of heather or similar things, then with beaters of three different forms
 in C. Then one makes another layer of earth & heather and beats it as was said, & continues thus until
 thus until the wall is complete, which one covers with heather & then with earth. Some m intermix rows of bricks
 onto the pouncing and thrust it into a dye of guesde woad or pastel woad & it will become green, except that
 and thrust it into a dye of guesde woad or pastel woad & it will become green, except that which is beneathus
 it comforts quite well. Toothache Some put a clove of garlic in the ear which is on the side where the
 tooth green skin scraped from e the small branch of visaube , namely the kind which is under the grey one
 the mouth of the melt, two or three handfuls of wallwort when they want to make the melt run, and this
 that it does not adhere to it. Against Go. Soak quince seeds in clear water & of this mucilaginous water make
 hair & it will attach to the silk like fine cotton wisps. Silk Crimson is more abundant than all other silks
 worker. Black is less abundant because it charges much. Keeping oranges One needs to choose quite whole ones which are not
 not pressed together. It is better if there is a hemp thread throughout the wick, which gives it more light &
 the end. For making millas It is necessary to have millet pilled to remove the husks and then you will clean
 yolks for each millas. Then you will put in some saffron , if you like, to give them a little color.
 glassmakers, having made it, put it when totally hot on straw , which stains it in this way. However, this is
 at x or twelve lb. For whitening the face Pestle puffball in cistern water, & no other, & wash with this
 Against winds, colic, &c Sap squeezed or water distilled from orange peel is excellent against the windy colic. Candied peel, too,
 of it, having poured foaming wine in a glass, squeeze orange juice on the wine foam, which proceeds only from vapor
 juice against a candle it will burn all the brighter. Skirret root They want to be planted in a very humid
 takes from it all its goodness. Against burn Pestle an onion with verjuice & leave it to soak like this, then
 the tracks by levelling ditches & others obstacles, such as trees , stone mounds & similar things to make gabions on
 Then grind it quite hard on marble & next take rye flour, which is better than wheat because it is more
 marble & next take rye flour, which is better than wheat because it is more humid and does not make the
 with terre emerita, and once dry, give a coat of spike lavender oil varnish and of sandarac. And it will be more
 is the tear that is found in gr pieces like peas and large hazelnuts which look like . I put it
 that is found in gr pieces like peas and large hazelnuts which look like . I put it in common eau-de-vie,
 that the surface of the anvils be the same. New vine Having taken well, if you want it to grow strong
 sometimes violet. The green one is made in a single pastel woad dye, because green being made from yellow and blue, the
 dye, because green being made from yellow and blue, the pastel woad discharging itself onto the straw, which shows its dark yellow,
 obtains bright green. For the red, they use alum and brazilwood . For the violet, they use pastel woad & a
 they use alum and brazilwood. For the violet, they use pastel woad & a little copperas, which browns the blue with its
 you will place the notch, colored with brazilwood rosette or black cherry juice, upon the nose. The conjuror ought not to amuse
 it, put in wine or liquid rosette of Brazilwood or black cherry juice, and blocking the hole of the spout the with
 light. For preventing someone from eating a foodstuff Dry some calf’s foot root, otherwise arum, & sprinkle the foodstuff swith it. There
 from eating a foodstuff Dry some calf’s foot root, otherwise arum , & sprinkle the foodstuff swith it. There is no
 There is no danger in this. See Mathiol. For transmuting grain from one vessel to another Take two small wooden bushels
 the bottom of the other you will glue kernels of grain with starch such that it will be covered entirely with
 with starch such that it will be covered entirely with grain , & it will seem to be filled with it.
 a wooden bell into which you will place as much grain as can be held within the capacity of one of
 bushel, then in front of the audience fill it with grain , then put it back in the napkin. Next, leave
 that one there & take the other where the le grain is glued with starch & it will seem to be
 it will seem to be the first one, filled with grain . Put it under a hat & place the bell
 it covered. Then you will command that by invisibilium the grain pass into the bell, which you will have tapped shortly
 shortly before on the table a little strongly, & the grain will fall to the bottom & cover the piece of
 semb will be found empty and the bell full of grain , which you will scrape deftly along with the piece
 as large as a double liard. Take one two similar boxwood balls, & let one be hollow & open with a
 in Lorraine & in Flanders well-made glass is made of fern ashes & pebbles, and first they blow a long bubble,
 in France, plate glass is made with some salt of saltwort & pebbles, that is whiter & more delicate than that
 stomach which heats it and unstops the liver Take Take wormwood powder, dissolve it in capilli veneris syrup or preserves, &
 unstops the liver Take Take wormwood powder, dissolve it in capilli veneris syrup or preserves, & make with it an opiate of
 the winds which arise from it. You can take six pepper grains & grate their rinds such that they are smooth,
 And do thus two or three times. Gardener For sowing melons well, it needs to be at the end of a
 thickness of a thumb of havets, that is to say wheat fl chaff, in order that the coming rain does not
 this, one must moisten them with s a decoction of wormwood . Glassworker Some do not apply gris d’escaille to the
 sapphire. The file bites on it as on the beryl. Saffron It is counterfeited & augmented with marigold leaves half-dried, &
 on the beryl. Saffron It is counterfeited & augmented with marigold leaves half-dried, & twisted like a thread, & put in
 hottest sun to dry, & is mixed, & the said marigold even gives some color. Sapphire Stone cutters sometimes choose old
 crust. But they only polish it, rubbing it with a willow stick or other soft wood dipped into water & dusted
 reddish on the surface. And if it is rubbed against fir & soft wood before it is cooled, it is easily
 of lime. Against nose bleed and for dyeing Pestle some sorrel or lapathum acutum of the sort that is red-veined, which
 Against nose bleed and for dyeing Pestle some sorrel or lapathum acutum of the sort that is red-veined, which is called dragon’s
 herb is a strong dye & makes beautiful violet. Beautiful artichokes One needs to prune them every year so that only
 those who sell in bulk & those who traffic in pastel woad have double-entry books. Scarlets Because one aulne costs seven or
 francs an aulne & have it dyed with pure scarlet pastel woad & a little cochineal. Black cloth is thin so that
 in with the silver is the cause. Try for enamel. Pastel woad It is grown in Lauragais where the depth of the
 earth is so fertile that if one were to grow wheat there every year, it would lie flat for being too
 for being too vigorous. This is why one alternately does pastel woad and wheat there. For the cultivation of pastel woad, one
 vigorous. This is why one alternately does pastel woad and wheat there. For the cultivation of pastel woad, one ploughs the
 does pastel woad and wheat there. For the cultivation of pastel woad , one ploughs the soil with shovels of iron, as
 with rakes, & breaks it up finely as for sowing cooking herbs . One commonly sows it on St. Anthony’s day in
 harvests of it. The first ones are better. The best pastel woad of Lauragais is the one from Carmail & the one
 from Carmail & the one from Auragne. And sometimes the pastel woad is good in one field & in the one close
 by it will hardly have worth. The goodness of the pastel woad is known when, put in the mouth, it gives a
 goldsmiths, gild your entire glass pane with gum water or garlic juice or milk of the fig tree. Then moisten your
 with gum water or garlic juice or milk of the fig tree . Then moisten your printed history between two wet linen
 fig tree. Then moisten your printed history between two wet linen cloths, and lay it down on the gilt glass. Then
 down your tin sheet. Dye Some take the root of lapathium acutum maius , which resembles monk’s rhubarb or sorrel, & with the
 Some take the root of lapathium acutum maius, which resembles monk’s rhubarb or sorrel, & with the root, which is yellow in
 root of lapathium acutum maius, which resembles monk’s rhubarb or sorrel , & with the root, which is yellow in the
 artifice. One always needs to reheat the earths before casting. Garden lily If one breaks it at its first blossom & it
 they go into the water. One feeds them with boiled millet grains, crumbling in bread for them and scattering in well
 crumbling in bread for them and scattering in well chopped lettuces . Glassworkers’ black Iron scale taken from bars that have
 to make gold color there without gold, mix soaked dried saffron with a little massicot. Founder The mold of earth is
 with glair beaten with the milk or bark of the fig tree , which will immediately make it clear up like water,
 outlining a portrait Follow the lines with lake ground with olive oil, which will not dry. White varnish on plaster Give
 white glue for painting. Next, varnish with varnish of sandarac, spike lavender oil, and a little mastic. And in the evening put
 immediately. Pour the oil, which will have taken the substance. Mericotons and pavis One should graft them en during Advent of
 the oil, which will have taken the substance. Mericotons and pavis One should graft them en during Advent of Christmas provided
 grated minium embellishes lead medals. Varied and transmuted wine Grate brazilwood very finely, put it to soak one or two hours
 as you like. If you please, put a drop of lemon or orange juice in it & it will immediately turn
 like. If you please, put a drop of lemon or orange juice in it & it will immediately turn white. It
 there, it is fine and good. Dyes from flowers The red poppy , which grows amongst grains, makes a very beautiful columbine
 good. Dyes from flowers The red poppy, which grows amongst grains , makes a very beautiful columbine on white leather. The
 grains, makes a very beautiful columbine on white leather. The cornflower makes a very beautiful blue. A plant which grows in
 which grows in hedges, which has a stem similar to flax , a long & broad leaf like small bugloss, which
 similar to flax, a long & broad leaf like small bugloss , which has a violet flower verging on blue &
 violet flower verging on blue & is shaped like the lily flower , makes a very beautiful turquin, surpassing azure. Another flower,
 makes a very beautiful turquin, surpassing azure. Another flower, the columbine , of the shape & size of the bugloss flower,
 flower, the columbine, of the shape & size of the bugloss flower, which has a petal resembling that of the pansy,
 bugloss flower, which has a petal resembling that of the pansy , also makes a very beautiful turquin. It grows amongst
 pansy, also makes a very beautiful turquin. It grows amongst grains , in light soils. white Horsehair sieves They are made
 against the plague of Monsieur de Montorsin Take some theriac, rue & dittany, & good vinegar, put the whole in a
 plague of Monsieur de Montorsin Take some theriac, rue & dittany , & good vinegar, put the whole in a glass
 & tested secret. White soporific oil Take x or 12 mandrake apples, put them in quarters in olive oil, the whole
 x or 12 mandrake apples, put them in quarters in olive oil, the whole in a vial glass bottle which you
 take as much clove oil as can be held in a walnut shell, and
 as much clove oil as can be held in a walnut shell, and as much rose honey, & seven or eight
 of sulfur penetrates & is corrosive, and the but the clove oil & the rose honey correct it. Therefore use it
 the rose honey correct it. Therefore use it with discretion. Wheat oil Applied to hair, it makes it fall out &
 them, and, having mixed in it a bit of powdered gentian & one drop of oil of sulfur, give it to
 the pain will not return. Against cold gouts Oil of guaiac & of sulfur mixed together, applied. Go Flowers of trees
 you can mix it with rose honey & a little cinnamon or clove oil. Antimony oil It yellows quite strongly, even
 mix it with rose honey & a little cinnamon or clove oil. Antimony oil It yellows quite strongly, even silver, if
 sickness or vertigo Hung round the neck, wear root of peony which should be picked at the waning of the moon.
 Against diarrhea, it is very good to use preserve of symphytum , also called consolida maior. And if it is against
 is very good to use preserve of symphytum, also called consolida maior . And if it is against dysentery, you can rub
 of it with a spoonful of broth. The root of consolida maior , pestled & put between pieces cuts in a piece
 week, give them another seven or eight days after. Excellent mustard Dry bread in an oven, then lard it with cloves
 mustard Dry bread in an oven, then lard it with cloves & cinnamon & thus put it to soak in good
 bread in an oven, then lard it with cloves & cinnamon & thus put it to soak in good wine. Then,
 tammy cloth, being well pestled, & incorporate it with your mustard seed. Keeping birds and animals skin them Take a measurement
 of iron Calcined iron oyster shell Sand for lead casting Rye straw ashes well boiled then dried & then well sieved.
 much of one as of the other; & ashes of walnut tree or vine, well boiled, dried & finely sieved, bound with
 as of the other; & ashes of walnut tree or vine , well boiled, dried & finely sieved, bound with glair
 are starting to fall into love. Ortolans are fed on oats all summer in order that they are nourished without becoming
 one wants to fatten them for selling, one gives them millet . They sing at night. One needs to c take
 ℞ a glass ampul with an opening capable of receiving cherries and plums or whatever fruit that you want. Put in
 glass ampul with an opening capable of receiving cherries and plums or whatever fruit that you want. Put in some hot
 eyes become swollen at the beginning of August. Goldfinches like lettuce seeds very much, & often one catches them in gardens
 much, & often one catches them in gardens on seeded lettuces with two lime-twigs. But because such regular fare would be
 be too expensive for them, they are ordinarily fed with hemp seed. The passe solitaire is purged with a spider, which
 their cage. For feeding young goldfinches, one needs to pestle almonds with pith a very little amount of bread pith and
 pith a very little amount of bread pith and l ettuce seed or hemp seed. If it is for linnet, some
 very little amount of bread pith and lettuce seed or hemp seed. If it is for linnet, some rapeseed. Curried steel
 seed or hemp seed. If it is for linnet, some rapeseed . Curried steel and files The steel that farriers &
 be in reverse, but if you oil your paper with spike lavender &or turpentine oil, it will represent from the left the
 in the wash water. Then make your ink with some linseed oil & not with walnut oil & press with the
 make your ink with some linseed oil & not with walnut oil & press with the rollers. The copper plates are
 different from that of the printers, one needs to boil walnut oil or, even better, linseed oil for a long time.
 printers, one needs to boil walnut oil or, even better, linseed oil for a long time. & having boiled for a
 having boiled for a long time, you will put in garlic & bread crusts to rid it of grease & leave
 plates with a linen cloth, it would remove the ink. Linseed oil thickens while boiling & becomes like a varnish &
 tartar until it is black & grind it with non-boiled linseed oil, or walnut oil which others find to be better.
 is black & grind it with non-boiled linseed oil, or walnut oil which others find to be better. This black is
 with water of sulfurous baths, & to sometimes give it fenugreek or other hot foods, for the intention of the worker
 the feast of St. John until the 25th of April. Linseed Whoever wants to have it beautiful & p very delicate
 it with gummed water & you will mold very delicately. Almond trees , apricots They come in quite straight if one grafts
 gummed water & you will mold very delicately. Almond trees, apricots They come in quite straight if one grafts them. And
 one grafts them. And all trees with pitted fruit, like pavis , mericotons, alberges, vie apricots &c, come in best shield
 grafts them. And all trees with pitted fruit, like pavis, mericotons , alberges, vie apricots &c, come in best shield grafted
 them. And all trees with pitted fruit, like pavis, mericotons, alberges , vie apricots &c, come in best shield grafted on
 all trees with pitted fruit, like pavis, mericotons, alberges, vie apricots &c, come in best shield grafted on an almond tree.
 vie apricots &c, come in best shield grafted on an almond tree . Casting of lead and copper Lead & tin come
 Week. And to do this, one puts them in a fir box, like those where one puts sweetmeats, warmly among feather
 are two or three molted, one needs to give them white mulberry leaves, and then arrange them on the shelves. And three
 begin to want to climb on the dry branches of heath or heather that one prepares for them en & attaches
 want to climb on the dry branches of heath or heather that one prepares for them en & attaches See Hieronymus
 the body. At that time one carries them to the heath branches where they stop & begin to spin their prison,
 the wound put sap & pestled herb which is called semperviva , that is the small one which has leaves like
 one which has leaves like small grains, which some call vermicularis . And one holds for certain that it will not
 this powder afterward, &c. Damascus steel Distil earthworms separately & horseradish leaf separately, & mix these two waters, as much of
 a little more than tepid. Then take a bunch of weld , & take the grain of it & put it
 varnish is made thus, mix with clear Venice turpentine some spike lavender oil & until all is clear & liquid enough, &
 and the turpentine varnish that you know, for panels. Pure spike lavender oil varnish is not good for panels, for spike lavender
 spike lavender oil varnish is not good for panels, for spike lavender oil is too penetrating & makes colors sparkle, unless it
 For palettes to paint, ivory is excellent, knots of the fir tree , the pear tree, & if it is a walnut
 paint, ivory is excellent, knots of the fir tree, the pear tree , & if it is a walnut tree, make sure
 fir tree, the pear tree, & if it is a walnut tree , make sure the grain of the wood runs lengthwise.
 under the dung heap. White varnish of turpentine or of spike lavender oil and turpentine is colored with pulverized terra emerita, making
 burnished. It is dry in a quarter of an hour. Aloe would make brighter color still, but it takes long to
 the leather remains neatly imprinted of the size of a pea . And then you give the leather two or three
 white because the ceruse turns yellow. 4 or 5 year-old walnut oil which is clear is the best color, it keeps
 recently been drawn with the press in the manner of almond oil is white, especially if the walnuts’ skin is removed.
 the manner of almond oil is white, especially if the walnuts ’ skin is removed. One needs to make at least
 would not dry for a very long time without this. Spike lavender oil is commonly put with lead white, d not entirely
 white, d not entirely pure but mixed with a little walnut oil. The said spike lavender oil would not be good
 pure but mixed with a little walnut oil. The said spike lavender oil would not be good for lake & colors that
 from the mines, of ordinary charcoal, of burnt ivory, of peach pits, of lamp smoke, of burnt bones of the feet
 on wood. Azure Turpentine oil renders it very beautiful. Test palma christi seed oil. Walnut oil in Flanders costs at least a
 oil renders it very beautiful. Test palma christi seed oil. Walnut oil in Flanders costs at least a hundred sous a
 inside, & you want to clean them, soak them in spike lavender oil and they immediately will turn soft again as before,
 as before, then you will finish to clean them in walnut oil. Walnut oil is not as not as appropriate to
 then you will finish to clean them in walnut oil. Walnut oil is not as not as appropriate to soften them
 as not as appropriate to soften them as that of spike lavender , which is clear like water & penetrates & does
 like water & penetrates & does not have body like walnut oil. The handle of paintbrushes is made by those who
 palette, you will thin it little by little either with walnut oil or turpentine oil, dipping a knife point in the
 is more beautiful when imbibed on the panel without with walnut oil with which it has been first thinned, without putting
 with which it has been first thinned, without putting in spike lavender oil. And if you want to know if it is
 they will not die & you will work neatly. Oil Walnut oil extracted like peeled almonds is very white. The one
 you will work neatly. Oil Walnut oil extracted like peeled almonds is very white. The one of palma christi. And when
 extracted like peeled almonds is very white. The one of palma christi . And when the oil has a little body, the
 urine, others with white wine, for dust spoils the colors. Spike lavender oil One ought not to put any into colors for
 another, in the evening secretly pour a few drops of spike lavender on the oil on the top edge of the panel
 Keep clean & without dust the place where you paint. Amaranth color Although it is said to be immortal, it is
 & minium. There is no better oil than that of walnut , for it dries out neither too soon nor too
 blue & green velvets, you highlight touch the shading with peach pit black, which is very black. For lake, black of
 for making armor. Stil de grain yellow Is made with broom flower boiled well in water, putting in enough alum, then ceruse.
 chalk, but the best has its body with ceruse & brazilwood dye. Flanders blue In the month of May, one puts
 difficult to work as azur d’esmail. Therefore use the clearest walnut oil that you can, & the freshest. Softening One softens
 a perfect shadow for women in distemper. The powder of orberé grain is darker than umber & when you lack umber, the
 yolk, water, & thoroughly beaten with the peelings of the fig tree . With this | they paint & soften on the
 plaster with Venice turpentine or better, common turpentine. Mix in sumac , blackthorn sloes, quince seeds, pomegranate flowers, olive tree leaves,
 with Venice turpentine or better, common turpentine. Mix in sumac, blackthorn sloes , quince seeds, pomegranate flowers, olive tree leaves, & the
 turpentine or better, common turpentine. Mix in sumac, blackthorn sloes, quince seeds, pomegranate flowers, olive tree leaves, & the like, decocted,
 better, common turpentine. Mix in sumac, blackthorn sloes, quince seeds, pomegranate flowers, olive tree leaves, & the like, decocted, & mix
 turpentine. Mix in sumac, blackthorn sloes, quince seeds, pomegranate flowers, olive tree leaves, & the like, decocted, & mix with the turpentine.
 extracted all together from the honeycomb. For attracting pigeons Fry hemp seed in a pan with oil & give it to
 fire evaporates & leaves the paper clean, like turpentine & spike lavender oil, is good for making varnish. Sand Every ground &
 egg mixed with gum & a little oil, not of spike lavender , but another fragrant one that resembles olive oil. Every
 not of spike lavender, but another fragrant one that resembles olive oil. Every work done with glair supports oil. It is
 neatest sand that can be found for copper. Essential oils Walnut oil mixed with as much of turpentine & distilled through
 with magistra or good pure wine or boiled wine with elm tree roots & similar things. But very fine sands, like burned
 that it makes in itself when it is bathed. The olive oil that some mix in with beaten egg glair makes
 principally if it is glazed. Wood with streaked grain The elm , in its knotty root, has beautiful streaks diversified with
 diversified with grey and black, and the root of the maple , but one needs to chose well the grain of
 chose well the grain of the wood. One gives the maple a certain yellow color, then one varnishes it. Mulled and
 mulled enough, heat it again a little, adding a few cloves & a sufficient quantity of sugar. And they dri drink
 as we use wine. Varnish To a half lb of spike lavender oil, put in 4 ℥ of sandarac & mastic subtly
 it is not dry so soon. Heed well that the spike lavender oil be good, clear & not fatty, otherwise your varnish
 & let cool. Moisten your sand with wine boiled with elm root, and cast latten which comes out well / namely
 believes it to be a great secret to put in persicaire , which renders them soft as lead.Try to extract salts
 when they are washed, boil them in the ash of vine shoots , and put them into the hottest pot you can,
 grindings , and make it all boil together, and pound maplewood which will have been soaked in alum water and well
 a little saffron and vinegar and the milk of the fig tree , and do another coat. Then take the bronze and
 and apply it on top. Varnish Take two ounces of spike lavender oil & one ounce of sandarac. Take a clean pot,
 perolle petrolle & one ounce of sandarac & one of spike lavender oil. Color of burnished copper Take one ounce of sal
 have good vermilion. For making varnish Take one pound of linseed oil, and then you will put it in a earthen
 earthen pot, mixed with a crust of bread and three onions , and put it on top of a charcoal fire,
 yellow gold. And when it is done, you will take fig tree wood, & put it to soak some space of time,
 said gold with iecotton. And if you can find a fig tree , take the the white of one egg & stir
 For making it black, one needs to soak it in olive oil, and similarly for horn, as the case may be,
 two drams of sal ammoniac & half an ounce of pastel woad flowers, the whole made into powder, and do as with
 it yellow Take urine as above and two ounces of guesdre woad & one ounce of fustet and two ounces drams of
 and two ounces of guesdre woad & one ounce of fustet and two ounces drams of sal ammoniac, & do as
 of gold & of little expense First take very yellow orange peel, & clean them well of the white that is
 lead mask. Medicine of the orientals against all maladies Dry rosemary in the month of May, then fill this bowl with
 something more noble. Another approved varnish Take two ounces of linseed oil & two ounces of petrolle oil and two ounces
 see a beautiful varnish. Another varnish Take petrolle oil & spike lavender oil, as much of one as the other, & mix
 you want to varnish. Another varnish Take one ounce of spike lavender oil & of sang de raiye da Rac & make
 see a beautiful varnish. Another varnish Take one ounce of spike lavender oil & heat it over charcoals, & then take a
 & grind it coarsely, and then put it into the spike lavender oil, & then mix it with a stick until you
 varnish Take some mastic, sang daRage darac, gum arabic & spike lavender oil, as much of one as the other, & make
 reddened & passed through a sleeve finely mixed with glair. Willow charcoal is excellent for sand for b lead. Latten runs
 better. Frame casting It is good to make it with boxwood . Turn it in order to make it even, as
 iron dross. Felt makes it release. Another sand Charcoal of vine shoots & clay earth, well cooked & well sieved, as
 shifting. But, at first, pounce your medal with very fine willow charcoal, & se next clean it, for this degreases it,
 to be well moistened & dampened with wine boiled with elm root. Iron dross, well burned bone of oxen feet, felt
 make it porous. There is only the wine boiled with elm root. Charcoal for pouncing makes for a good release, but
 a good release, but one finds that the one of willow makes it porous. The one of oak or beech does
 the one of willow makes it porous. The one of oak or beech does make it porous well without making it
 of willow makes it porous. The one of oak or beech does make it porous well without making it porous. Try
 bristle brushes, I once again lightly anointed it with clear walnut oil & gently passed a linen cloth over it so
 compactness, such as glair, gummed water, ea wine boiled with elm root , &c; and lightly oil the medal, it withstands as
 or minium with other sands. X Oil & anoint with aspic oil, which will go away when reheating, for the oil
 have done previously. I moistened it with wine boiled with elm root and molded with it a large piece of a
 fort moistened with glair of egg or wine boiled with elm root. I knocked on it moderately while molding. Having undone
 them sufficiently. Magistra Founders take the roots of a young elm when it is in sap & boil it in wine,
 any bond, & thus it sustained only one cast. rm Osier It can be planted, like the bramble, on both sides,
 one cast. rm Osier It can be planted, like the bramble , on both sides, & those who plant the large
 very rarely when it is also bent. Baker Dust keeps wheat from becoming infested with weevils. And to clean it well
 pass ashes through the sieve & mix them with the wheat , then boult the whole with a boulting cloth of
 cloth or canvas. The ashes will pass through & your wheat will stay yellow, clean & very beautiful. Looking-glass tin It
 impalpable, because they do not need a lot of it. Orberé grain makes a tawny powder, very delicate & very soft, which,
 soft, which, once mixed, could mix mold very neatly. Try wheat flour burned over a closed fire. Sand of burnt ox
 renders it lumpy. You can in anoint the medal with spike lavender oil, molding en noyau. It is better to put in
 more, on the medal, anointed lightly with oil either of olive , walnut, or even better spike lavender. But to do
 on the medal, anointed lightly with oil either of olive, walnut , or even better spike lavender. But to do it
 lightly with oil either of olive, walnut, or even better spike lavender . But to do it better mo, let it dry
 gives strength to u all sands to withstand several casts. Orange trees In Italy, those who are in the colder regions, like
 & dexterously cutting, with the soil, the ends of the orange tree ’s roots, because otherwise, as they find the wood, they
 the point of juncture, it takes uneasily, like from the vine , from all peaches & apricots. Apricot trees have a
 juncture, it takes uneasily, like from the vine, from all peaches & apricots. Apricot trees have a very thin bark, &
 takes uneasily, like from the vine, from all peaches & apricots . Apricot trees have a very thin bark, & thus
 uneasily, like from the vine, from all peaches & apricots. Apricot trees have a very thin bark, & thus one needs to
 do not yet have thick bark, like on shoots of prune trees & almond trees. The grafts scarcely take if the cut
 have thick bark, like on shoots of prune trees & almond trees . The grafts scarcely take if the cut of the
 rooftile, quite dry & quite smoothed & covered with pulverized willow charcoal, rub & smooth the two halves of the bones.
 the two halves of the bones. Thus they imbibe this willow charcoal, which makes them release well & guards against removing
 second time, mold it, but before, pounce on top with willow charcoal & blow lightly, then press as before, and it
 And each time before replacing the piece, pounce with some willow charcoal, for it makes it release well. When you have
 you have cast, rub the medal with oil & with willow charcoal powder & with a brush, to make it dull.
 would be good for solder. A long time to cool. Olives They are spoiled if once a month one does not
 enough strength to bud. Trees which have coarse marrow, like peach trees & all their kind & plum trees, do not want
 coarse marrow, like peach trees & all their kind & plum trees , do not want grafts in freezing weather because the
 18 or 20 sous. The best sword point is the sage leaf form. This long plank on which the sword is
 furbish it is called the chameau, it is commonly of rowan , which is hard & even. The lower stick, which
 a square piece of wood three fingers in thickness, of boxwood , which is fitted in the middle of the stick
 of the fustée to furbish. The fresil stick is of willow wood, which is to clean the rust off weapons with
 height of the art. They buy the wood pieces of beech wood for scabbards which are ready made, a hundred for
 then they rub the stitching thoroughly with a piece of boxwood to cover & even it. From a good calf skin,
 with black thread, one rubs it with a piece of boxwood or with a cloth, having daubed it a little in
 strongly & one cleans the guards well. Next, one applies walnut olive oil all over them with a feather while they
 & one cleans the guards well. Next, one applies walnut olive oil all over them with a feather while they are
 better. For if you do not purge it well, these straws & marks, pulverized into it, will remain within the varnish,
 & does not go to your head like that of spike lavender . For some, instead of tour turpentine oil, put spike
 spike lavender. For some, instead of tour turpentine oil, put spike lavender oil, which is not as good. This varnish is laid
 take a little turpentine, & oil of turpentine or of spike lavender , & amber pulverized & passed very subtly, & make
 holes with an iron stake where you will plant your rosemary . Behead & cut to measure, and prune from the
 will plant your rosemary. Behead & cut to measure, and prune from the bottom up. Locksmith To tin nails well, and
 boil in vinegar, then they wipe it well with a linen cloth. Next, they heat it & pass some rosin over
 this, that they have a larger muzzle than others. Salted artichokes One puts them whole & not too ripe in a
 it is considered impossible to give it its first voice. Quince trees They want to be pruned often, otherwise they die &
 mat on canvas or other oil panel, one makes fatty walnut oil in the sun or on the fire, as said
 pebbles and the saltpeter, it makes the color of a peach tree . Others say that it is necessary that the gold
 mixing other Varnish The Germans make minium boil well in linseed oil, & to give it the body of varnish, they
 of fer blanc to evacuate the smoke from the furnace Rapeseed oil for the lamps to heat the furnace A fire-steel
 for topaz, or one of gold or silver. Infusion of anthos or rosemary In the month of August, the flower is
 or one of gold or silver. Infusion of anthos or rosemary In the month of August, the flower is better cooked
 around the figure, in this way. Against burns, excellent Heat linseed oil on a gentle fire without letting it boil &
 & next put the ointment, over which you can put ivy leaves. This causes hair to regrow & leaves no scar.
 salt & a little sublimate, or else grind massicot with linseed oil, and u cover ce the quite clean & polished
 tarnish. And after it is well applied, boil it in walnut oil, & next heat it a little, & thrust it
 thrust it in sweet boutteure. Enameling a cornaline Soak some wheat flower in white wine, then besmear & cover the whole
 it well & wrap it entirely with a slip of linen or very soft thread, so that there is nothing uncovered
 of August, and so that the trees are in sap. Almond trees , which by their nature are drier, lose their sap
 sap earlier, therefore those who want to graft onto them mericotons , apricots & grafts of trees with pitted fruit, which
 earlier, therefore those who want to graft onto them mericotons, apricots & grafts of trees with pitted fruit, which are the
 the month of January. Generally trees with pitted fruit, like mericoton peaches , are grafted in clefts. One says that trees de
 die. Gardening It would not be very careful to cultivate oraches in one’s garden, because when soup & broth is kept
 can only be used once because for delicate things, like wormwood & others, one needs to break them, but before one
 sive animal ut lucerta, in af inting inmergatur primum in vini spiritum aprime rectificatum, deinde pulvere composito aspergatur sive illinatur (si
 water. By putting in a piece the size of a walnut in a large bottle of water, and thus one mixes
 put the tools in the mouth, which are better in boxwood or bone of hart. Wax for molding - As the
 burn your hand & itch, as if you had handled nettles . But the most powerful remedy for this is to
 better for opening them up than to anoint them with olive oil, & nothing else. And next, when you want to
 are more handleable & easier to dissolve in the water. Wheat oil Is made on a blade of iron reddened in
 # If you want to mold something delicate, like a pansy , some, to give it a little thickness, more than
 with butter. But it is best to anoint it with wheat oil, for it has no body, & does not obstruct
 that of latten. Sal ammoniac wateer The size of two chestnuts of pulverized sal ammoniac suffices in a pot of water,
 it. But place wax, as much as a grain of millet , between the body & ce qui the end of
 then anoint your images of wax or of lead with olive oil, very thinly & very lightly, such that the oil
 porous. A way to grind enamel gold very delicate gold rose leaves and others After you have cast or beaten in
 cast or beaten in gold the thin leaves of a rose or other things, if you want to enamel them, you
 rosin as much looking-glass tin as the size of a hazelnut with its shell, & mix & cast. And make sure
 the said ☿ will come out & not remain. The asparagus stalk is so hard that most often it remains as
 defect, or with a soft brush or a cut paintbrush. Daisies They can be cast well in gold. But if you
 a tip like a small chisel. For grottos The old vine stocks Stones made from water called stuf, charcoal, the compound
 pieces of wood which are found in the forests, & mushrooms , and potirons of trees, once dry, are better than
 wood which are found in the forests, & mushrooms, and potirons of trees, once dry, are better than any other because
 ammoniac water, made of sal ammoniac, as much as two walnuts , in a bottle of common water, the same size
 rosin, & at the same time the size of a bean of looking-glass tin, & I mixed, & stirred the crucible
 the thickness of a the width of a grain of wheat ; likewise for tin, which wants to be cast very
 it run, & you can throw in a branch of wormseed . IlNightingale One needs for the cage, made like those
 wind, which should be well sealed with wax & mastic. Carnations & roses, the residue of common vinegar makes them rot.
 should be well sealed with wax & mastic. Carnations & roses , the residue of common vinegar makes them rot. If
 there. Now take heed that you choose for that effect cornflowers , marigolds, the yellow meadow flowers called ranunculus or palta
 Now take heed that you choose for that effect cornflowers, marigolds , the yellow meadow flowers called ranunculus or palta lupina,
 heed that you choose for that effect cornflowers, marigolds, the yellow meadow flowers called ranunculus or palta lupina, amaranth & suchlike, and broom,
 for that effect cornflowers, marigolds, the yellow meadow flowers called ranunculus or palta lupina, amaranth & suchlike, and broom, and others
 effect cornflowers, marigolds, the yellow meadow flowers called ranunculus or palta lupina , amaranth & suchlike, and broom, and others that your
 marigolds, the yellow meadow flowers called ranunculus or palta lupina, amaranth & suchlike, and broom, and others that your experience will
 flowers called ranunculus or palta lupina, amaranth & suchlike, and broom , and others that your experience will teach you. The
 that dust & well dried, use it as you know. Pansies are kept thus. For keeping fruits all year One needs
 breathe on them. You can also put in leaves from vine . For casting in silver You need to arrange your
 that it all becomes like a thick sauce or thin mustard , & having rubbed the animal with eau-de-vie with the
 hold up by itself, and should it be weak like wormwood leaf, which droops, the dampness of the sand will lift
 morning good buttered toast, and hold the said butter, or zedoary , or gold coins, in your mouth, and ada cover
 it firmer. And in this, the most singular thing is wheat oil, with which you will anoint it. Once cast, you
 flowers that have very delicate & thin leaves, for dry wheat oil makes them rigid and firm. And if someone brags
 them to mold the downy head of the plant called dandelion or a pappus, which comes from the seeds of burdock
 the downy head of the plant called dandelion or a pappus , which comes from the seeds of burdock & flies
 dandelion or a pappus, which comes from the seeds of burdock & flies away at the slightest sigh of wind. Noyaulx
 need to. If you want to mold a bunch of grapes , one needs to take it, like any other fruit,
 molds in the natural season of que all things. The grapes that are usually wanted cast in sugar can be made
 artificially or with wax or earth, or even with some grapes attached with some melted wax on some slab & other
 up one half. Or, if you have some of those grapes called chauchés or sauvignons, which have the grapes very close
 half. Or, if you have some of those grapes called chauchés or sauvignons, which have the grapes very close together, encase
 if you have some of those grapes called chauchés or sauvignons , which have the grapes very close together, encase half
 of those grapes called chauchés or sauvignons, which have the grapes very close together, encase half of them on in the
 slab and cast on the other half. And if some grape is not released, pluck it out. Note that neither in
 in metal, can a bunch which has light & separated grapes be cast properly, because the end of the bunch is
 grapes are kept, that it could not sustain the large grapes . Thus, you will need to cast hollow, which you
 could not do if the bunch does not have the grapes close together & molds without having them scattered & spread
 molds without having them scattered & spread apart. To cast pears & apples in sugar, one ought not to make any
 having them scattered & spread apart. To cast pears & apples in sugar, one ought not to make any gates, but
 wheat starch in the mold or rub it with an almond . Crocum ferri It is much sooner made with iron
 is very difficult to burn in the noyau, such as asparagus , thyme, & similar things, because they stay as charcoal
 very difficult to burn in the noyau, such as asparagus, thyme , & similar things, because they stay as charcoal in
 proceed from plants that have a stem with lines, because rosemary burns well, but it is in the nature of certain
 quicksilver makes them break & disintegrate, once calcined & burnt. Asparagus always stays as charcoal, like little pins. Try to take
 as charcoal, like little pins. Try to take it, and thyme , at the beginning, when they are growing, so that
 seeing cracked & burst lumps, take the size of a hazelnut of arsenic & two times as much of raw tartar,
 on top of your well-melted silver, the size of a pea or thereabouts, some of this metallic grain, which will immediately
 temper your color with glair beaten with peelings of the fig tree , and your work will soon be dry. But layer
 work will soon be dry. But layer it thinly. For wormseed The pallid white of this herb is made from vert
 in your tin & your lizard will resemble silver. Molded roses They are awkward to mold because the petals are very
 to obl avoid this, one needs to anoint them with wheat oil, which is very dessicative. And having quickly dried, it
 the tempered sand. The same is done with flies, with pansies & similar delicate things, with flowers from the caper plant.
 with pansies & similar delicate things, with flowers from the caper plant . Animals dried in the oven for a long time
 them & lay them flat with some, anointing them with wheat oil. Kill them in vinegar & urine, like snakes &,
 or in eau-de-vie, and then shape them on a well-made vine leaf or other thing. Next, you can give them back
 Having made your tourt clay slab, place on it your vine leaf, and the dead spider in the middle, & pierce
 Next, place diagonally small points of latten wire around the vine leaf to secure it well. Then fix, with a little
 things. In this manner, you will need to burn the vine leaf in the mold, otherwise not. And to cast more
 on the clay slab, as has been said, on a vine leaf, and make there your first cast; & once it
 well if it is not flattened, having anointed it with wheat oil, which stiffens it & is quickly dry. Hairy things
 the sand & do not burn well. Molding a single vine leaf Plant it with the points of fine iron latten
 little borax & put in the fire. Boiled water of quince seed & others also. Couleur for gold or mixture Verdigris
 of one as the other, & as much as a bean of saltpeter. For if you put a quantity in it,
 some moist & humid place until you have done it. Vine leaf and small frog Take vine leaves to mold as
 you have done it. Vine leaf and small frog Take vine leaves to mold as they are in growth, likewise with
 growth, likewise with all plants & flowers, or a young vine growing again after having been cut, or when they rebud
 the gate thin & with several lines & lumpy. The vine leaf is painted with green made of stil de grain
 see well inside. Throw in it the size of a bean of borax, & blow inside in jolts with the small
 & very fine things if it is not alloyed. A pansy anointed with wheat oil can be cast in alloyed gold.
 things if it is not alloyed. A pansy anointed with wheat oil can be cast in alloyed gold. And other thin
 black modeling wax, then anoint the inside, thus waxed, with wheat oil, & then powder this with lamp smoke, for it
 forget to throw inside, as well, as much as a bean of looking-glass tin for each lb of lead, and that
 of melted wax, as much sulfur la as a large walnut . Pulverize it, melt it over a slow fire, &
 or feathers, it is necessary that you anoint them with olive wheat oil, which is quickly dry & which will keep
 feathers, it is necessary that you anoint them with olive wheat oil, which is quickly dry & which will keep the
 place it cannot be seen. For giving thickness to a pansy or other flowers, butter is not good, but rather wheat
 pansy or other flowers, butter is not good, but rather wheat oil, which is soon dry & holds firm. Wax would
 by the cold. They hide in the earth or under wheat chaff or warm manure, & live only on the moisture of
 out, & the good filings will go to the bottom. Carnations Because the ones that are cast are usually massive, or
 pincers. The head arranged, dexterously place d a grain of yellow millet in each eye with pincers, because as soon as they
 well with all other small animals, with some grain of large amaranth , some of small, and grain of rapeseed, & this
 all other small animals, with some grain of large amaranth, some of small , and grain of rapeseed, & this done, you will
 grain of large amaranth, some of small, and grain of rapeseed , & this done, you will arrange the legs, securing
 make make a quicker set. I have molded thus a marigold with its leaves. The crocum ferri is safer for flowers,
 The alloy with which I cast a large branch of marigold , which came out neatly like the natural with its
 heated, I cast in it two or three grains, like peas , of sal ammoniac. This clarified it like a mirror.
 & scratch-brushed it well, make it boil in water & turmeric root or terra merita, and it will become very beautiful. Whitening
 well, make it boil in water & turmeric root or terra merita , and it will become very beautiful. Whitening If it
 one needs par d to anoint underneath their wings with wheat oil, which dries quickly and fortifies them & gives them
 once dead, because they dry out and their legs break. Wheat oil is put underneath delicate things to render them more
 small chisels, small cutting-punches, small gouges & small serrated chisels. Wheat oil One needs to make it between two quite sparkling
 which will be sloping, on which you will put some wheat , quite even & uniform. And then you will place
 candle. The rest of the body should be anointed with wheat oil, which will keep the hair stiff & couched, so
 getting entangled in it to prevent coming out neatly. The wheat oil being dry, which will be quick, you will be
 able to substitute in the eyes the halves of well-rounded peas , stripped of their skin & shell. Some make the
 shell. Some make the rat shed, others anoint it with olive oil, which is amiable, for wheat oil is thick &
 others anoint it with olive oil, which is amiable, for wheat oil is thick & has too much body. This is
 nature. Butter for anointing hairy animals is better e than wheat oil, because it is more amiable. If the rat is
 flour. And to flatten it, take a small stick of boxwood , very round & of the same thickness everywhere, which
 hollow of the mold H. Anoint your mold also with olive oil, as you have done with others, place the clay
 flowers & delicate things & herbage, one does not use wheat oil but melted butter, of which one gives a light
 # coat on the back of the petals of the rose flower & the pansy & other flowers that need it.
 back of the petals of the rose flower & the pansy & other flowers that need it. But one reinforces the
 the little legs of flies & other small animals with wheat oil to strengthen them & make them hold up. with
 them & make them hold up. with a small paintbrush Strawberries The leaves are cast separately & then are joined with
 separately & then are joined with solder. And because the strawberry fruit is cast solid, & by that means is heavy,
 wire & then one solders & joins them. Molding a rose Because the little branches of the rose bush which are
 them. Molding a rose Because the little branches of the rose bush which are aupart around the flower are sometimes very spread
 a mold, one makes and molds them separately, and the rose & some buds separately. And then one joins with solder
 joins with solder the little branches & leaves of the rose bush to the stem of the rose on which one intentionally
 leaves of the rose bush to the stem of the rose on which one intentionally leaves the little tips of the
 little tips of the small branches. Put your leaf or rose as low as you can in the mold because the
 separating them with threads, as is said. And regarding the rose , you can give a thin layer of melted butter
 should. You them can also mold well the leaves of rose bushes , strawberry plants, & similar things that are flat &
 them can also mold well the leaves of rose bushes, strawberry plants , & similar things that are flat & can be
 strength. I would be of the opinion to mold the rose on its own with a little of its stem close
 it to a longer one of tinned latten, because the rose in full bloom has great volume & weight. Wet the
 in full bloom has great volume & weight. Wet the rose with eau-de-vie before putting it in the circle of clay.
 tempered sand, blow thoroughly until it begins to set. The rose came out well. But because the sand finds itself mixed
 it in the water, the earth is gone from it. Rose Because the flower in full bloom is billowy & has
 be unable to support. One molds the flower of the rose on its own & separately, making its gate largeish in
 melted, and also because the cast flowers & especially the rose are not beautiful without being painted, one does not take
 these little barbs that are in the middle of the rose or the holes of the that may be in any
 may be in any petal. Next, you will paint your rose according to nature. If you cast your rose in gold
 paint your rose according to nature. If you cast your rose in gold or silver, you can join & solder well.
 they are, anoint lightly their down & capricious hair with olive oil to lay it down. Also take them and use
 well in the cast. They can be planted on a sage leaf or similar. They are cast well in silver &
 & one reattaches them. I have molded one on ea sage leaf bouquet of sage, which had seven or eight leaves.
 I have molded one on ea sage leaf bouquet of sage , which had seven or eight leaves. And to make
 iron wire point, I anointed the legs & feet with wheat oil. And to lay down & couch the downy hair
 that it had, I anointed it also with a little olive oil. I did not leave the wheat oil to dry
 with a little olive oil. I did not leave the wheat oil to dry a lot, because it is thick &
 the fly came out well, and especially the bouquet of sage , which is very beautiful molded. One could even cast
 wings a little, & the feet, as said. If your sage or branch has something to repair, do as said below.
 everywhere. In this way I have cast a branch of periwinkle , leaves & flowers, very neatly, having given to the
 them in oil, because distemper colors have no hold. For marigold flowers , lightly ground minium for some, & for others which
 If the green is dark, put with it charcoal of peach tree pits, which makes a v greenish black, in the same
 charcoal or a scratch brush made of wires of latten. Carnation It is molded like the rose, marigold & all other
 of wires of latten. Carnation It is molded like the rose , marigold & all other flowers thus, as is said,
 wires of latten. Carnation It is molded like the rose, marigold & all other flowers thus, as is said, namely, whole-mold
 very neatly. But such things do not endure the fire. Peach tree Because they sprout & flower among the first, & thus
 them and that, leblossoming later, the flowers come to profit. Olive trees In Spain, one lays them bare at the roots during
 blackness of the musk, they put in a bit of wheat starch from England, which is perfectly white. When the amber
 burin, or gently with a small file, & rub with willow charcoal & little brushes. Make continuous the lines disturbed by
 the harvester is not reproached for leaving some ears of wheat . If any artisans complain that one discovers their craft
 Manus meae fecerunt organum et digiti mei aptarunt psalterium. Keeping chestnuts One needs to leave them in their bristled shells until
 of processes Molding turtles Furry animals Birds Leaf of a vine - put Of strawberries Molding diverse pieces Molding a vessel
 Furry animals Birds Leaf of a vine - put Of strawberries Molding diverse pieces Molding a vessel in a frame Molding
 Molding diverse pieces Molding a vessel in a frame Molding capilli veneris & plants that need threads for their support Molding a
 plants that need threads for their support Molding a bouquet Rose carnations Molding hollow Hollow gilded silver Molding crab - put
 that need threads for their support Molding a bouquet Rose carnations Molding hollow Hollow gilded silver Molding crab - put +
 Molding and making hollow forms of animals from metal + Wheat oil put and seen Stag beetle Foot of a bittern
 of carcanets Things that are not released Fountains Grottos Diverse mosses applied Molding in three frames Softening iron to engrave it
 or plague, an écu’s weight of your opiate soaked in scabious or bugloss water or thoroughly tempered wine, if one is
 an écu’s weight of your opiate soaked in scabious or bugloss water or thoroughly tempered wine, if one is afflicted. After
 episcopi Frisigensis Ab orbe condito For preserving Acetum paratum ex ruta baccis juniperi simul tusis. Eo aceto extinguantur lateres igniti et
 Frisigensis Ab orbe condito For preserving Acetum paratum ex ruta baccis juniperi simul tusis. Eo aceto extinguantur lateres igniti et vapor excipiatur
 a place where you do not have this preparation, carry rue & seeds pestled together, then, according to your need, boil
 where you do not have this preparation, carry rue & seeds pestled together, then, according to your need, boil them in
