 linen cloth and only the lettering will remain. For bursting grenades and giving force to fireworks Put among the powder six
 lettering will remain. For bursting grenades and giving force to fireworks Put among the powder six times as much of quicksilver
 a little force & very precisely, force it into the arquebus or pistol. And before firing, cha if possible, make it
 force & very precisely, force it into the arquebus or pistol . And before firing, cha if possible, make it so
 a hole in the wall as you know, put a petard inside, charged with powder, which should be as if lying
 work not so porous. One casts large works such as artillery , bells & similar things in earth, & copper cast
 droops & makes the candle drip. On the gunner The cannon fires at point blank from five to six hundred paces.
 weighs 40 lb of the King’s caliber. There is a cannon-perrier , which weighs xxv quintals, which are small, short cannons.
 There is a cannon-perrier, which weighs xxv quintals, which are small, short cannons . It is for fighting the ditch casemates & for
 one ought not to over-charge it, for this damages the piece . And for the first time & until it has
 is better not to give its complete charge, for the piece is still proving itself. And the test that one can
 to give it a charge of xx lb of fine arquebus powder instead of ordinary cannon powder. And four good horses
 of xx lb of fine arquebus powder instead of ordinary cannon powder. And four good horses are sufficient to drag them.
 which gives great strength to the powder & puts the piece in danger of bursting is the length of the piece,
 piece in danger of bursting is the length of the piece , because the powder is burned entirely before exiting, &
 its impetuosity is held constrained for longer in a small long piece than a gr short one. The cannon-perrier is commonly seven
 a small long piece than a gr short one. The cannon-perrier is commonly seven to eight pans long. It is true
 King’s pan, which is not used in the founding of cannons for making them good. For the pan of Montpellier being
 good. For the pan of Montpellier being of shorter, the cannons more proportioned there are shorter also, & compensate in thickness
 would be thinner. The e great canno strength of the cannon-perrier for making a battery is 4xx paces. The great cannon,
 the cannon-perrier for making a battery is 4xx paces. The great cannon , because of the weight of its ball, carries a
 without landing, & bouncing, it commonly bounces iii times. The cannon-perrier does not have a large effect if not close. One
 if not close. One recognizes the good alloy of a piece by seeing it. For if, with the greenness which they
 demonstration, scratch & you will see. The good alloy for pieces is of three parts of rosette & one of the
 two common ones. It is necessary, for a mounting a piece well, that it be as high at the side of
 the breech. Otherwise, one does not mount well. The large cannon , which is for great batteries, commonly weighs fifty-five or
 its usual range, one puts in a half ladle of cannon powder more. A cannon can fire 4xx or a hundred
 puts in a half ladle of cannon powder more. A cannon can fire 4xx or a hundred shots per day, but
 two quintals & a half if it is for large cannons , one puts one quintal of metal. # The metal
 tin there is, the clearer the sound is. Its For gun founding, if one provides the material & charcoal, as one
 40 lb, according to the King’s ordinance, per quintal for large pieces & such as cannons, and for small pieces, L lb.
 King’s ordinance, per quintal for large pieces & such as cannons , and for small pieces, L lb. For the more
 quintal for large pieces & such as cannons, and for small pieces , L lb. For the more material there is, the
 the master has of it. One founds another kind of cannon-perriers of xxx quintals which are longer than the others, and
 of a ball. Ain One gives it two ladles of cannon powder for its charge, & one & a half of
 powder for its charge, & one & a half of arquebus powder, & the same for the others. # The composition
 & the same for the others. # The composition of cannons of France is of one quintal of metal for two
 is more profitable than cauldrons, which turn entirely into filth. Old pieces are composed of almost de dem as much of one
 burin is found to be mixed with yellow & white. Large culverins are for battery & piercing are forty quintals & eighteen
 is 30 lb and thus lighter than that of the cannon . And thus, it does not carry so much ammunition
 much ammunition for fifteen lb suffices for its charge. The cannon makes a bigger opening due to the size of its
 opening due to the size of its ball, but the culverin hits more fiercely & propels faster, having greater force due
 the front the thickness of one ball & two thirds. Culverins serve to batter defenses from afar when one cannot easily
 from afar when one cannot easily make an approach, and cannons approach more closely. They also serve to support the battery.
 it. They are tout of the same alloy as the cannon , as are all pieces that exceed smaller than average,
 of the same alloy as the cannon, as are all pieces that exceed smaller than average, for to these, one adds
 rosette, one adds six twenties lb of metal for the smaller pieces . They shoot 8 or 9 hundred paces at point
 half a league at range. Some invented the loading of cannons with cartouches. Some po do not put the powder in
 cartouches. Some po do not put the powder in the cannon all in one go but in two & ramming each
 a further thumb’s breadth. But this is not certain for large pieces which are loaded with a lot of powder. The bastarde,
 pieces which are loaded with a lot of powder. The bastarde , which is a culverin middle-sized piece, weighs thirty quintals
 with a lot of powder. The bastarde, which is a culverin middle-sized piece, weighs thirty quintals and its ball weighs xx
 lot of powder. The bastarde, which is a culverin middle-sized piece , weighs thirty quintals and its ball weighs xx lb
 things. It is thirteen or xiiii pans long like the large cannon . Ten horses can move it. It accompanies well the
 cannon. Ten horses can move it. It accompanies well the large culverin for point blank because it carries small ammunition. Some give
 the breech & at the front of two balls. The bastard culverin weighs 35 quintals & is xxv pans long. It carries
 two in front. Its ball is like that of the bastarde piece , weighing xv lb. These are pleasure pieces which s
 that of the bastarde piece, weighing xv lb. These are pleasure pieces which s cannot be moved by carriage, but are for
 long, like the Cow of La Rochelle. But to such pieces one gives reinforcement at the breech as of three balls.
 half league at point blank. Its charge is like the bastarde . And if one wants to fire at some cavalry
 to where the ball is going. This goes for the cannon and for the culverin, and not for small pieces. The
 is going. This goes for the cannon and for the culverin , and not for small pieces. The average weighs 18
 for the cannon and for the culverin, and not for small pieces . The average weighs 18 quintals & measures xii pans
 break a barricade or to support the battery after the cannons have fired, in order to prevent the assailed from re-fortifying
 in order to prevent the assailed from re-fortifying after the cannons have played or fired. Four horses can draw it. It
 paces at point blank & almost as much as the bastarde . To cannons & large pieces one givesn as much
 point blank & almost as much as the bastarde. To cannons & large pieces one givesn as much powder as is
 & almost as much as the bastarde. To cannons & large pieces one givesn as much powder as is the diameter of
 & a half, at which point the escutcheon sits. To medium pieces , such as field pieces, & smaller ones, one gives
 which point the escutcheon sits. To medium pieces, such as field pieces , & smaller ones, one gives them powder the thickness
 gives them powder the thickness of two balls. To the passe-volant & other smaller ones, one gives them powder the thickness
 the thickness of three balls. In general, one charges all pieces up to the escutcheon. One charges with the ladle all
 up to the escutcheon. One charges with the ladle all pieces from the cannon to the piece of four quintals de
 escutcheon. One charges with the ladle all pieces from the cannon to the piece of four quintals de char, and one
 with the ladle all pieces from the cannon to the piece of four quintals de char, and one gives them two
 quintals de char, and one gives them two ladles of cannon powder or one & a half of arquebus powder. To
 ladles of cannon powder or one & a half of arquebus powder . To smaller ones, one only gives one ladle, &
 of one quintal are charged with a small charge. The field piece weighs ten or twelve quintals & is ten pans long
 has three balls & two in front, as do all pieces that are smaller than the average. One gives them more
 house or elsewhere one fires them more frequently than the large pieces . Their caliber is also small, which makes the breech
 tower. One needs three good horses for drawing it. The passe-volant weighs vi quintals, is eight or nine pans long. Its
 for a single horse does not begin to move a piece . It is used for the defense of houses, or
 the front, two. To move it, two horses, although such pieces are hardly moved insofar as they only serve to defend
 carted around either for battery or for siege combat, are cannons , culverins, medium-sized bastardes & field pieces. The falconet is
 around either for battery or for siege combat, are cannons, culverins , medium-sized bastardes & field pieces. The falconet is loaded
 for battery or for siege combat, are cannons, culverins, medium-sized bastardes & field pieces. The falconet is loaded with a ladle,
 or for siege combat, are cannons, culverins, medium-sized bastardes & field pieces. The falconet is loaded with a ladle, and one
 for siege combat, are cannons, culverins, medium-sized bastardes & field pieces . The falconet is loaded with a ladle, and one
 combat, are cannons, culverins, medium-sized bastardes & field pieces. The falconet is loaded with a ladle, and one commonly gives it
 commonly gives it only one ladle. There are also other falconets weighing three quintals, and which are nine pans long. Their
 breech, 3 balls, & 2 in front. To the small pieces which are under 3 quintals one gives them at least
 to the length one gives them. The strength of the piece is at the level of the trunnion, which is the
 the maslée, & at the back of the breech. A double musket weighs 2 quintals, is seven pans long, carries a ball
 up to the top of the escutcheon, which in these small pieces can amount to 3 or 4 balls of arquebus powder.
 small pieces can amount to 3 or 4 balls of arquebus powder. For if one uses cannon powder, one can load
 or 4 balls of arquebus powder. For if one uses cannon powder, one can load it to a thickness of c
 ball, one over-charges by a quarter ladle because if a cannon ball weighs 40 lb, the metal one weighs lx lb.
 But the iron one hits more fiercely from afar. A simple musket weighs one quintal, is six pans long. carries a ball
 up to the escutcheon, namely the thickness of 4 balls. Arquebus à croc weighs lx lb, that is to say the large one
 balls, and is for the defence of houses. Of these arquebus à croc , both the large & the small ones, one makes
 croc, both the large & the small ones, one makes orgues which are or appropriate for an assault, both outside &
 founded separately as if to serve for uses other than orgues . See the 4th leaf following, marked Mathematical figures without
 nourishing, it makes a good stomach. Gunner As for small cannons which are not loaded with a ladle, one charges them
 powder up to the escutcheon, which is placed on the piece with due proportion. To point a cannon, that is to
 placed on the piece with due proportion. To point a cannon , that is to say to take its aim, one
 sides before the top, that is to say above the cannon . For by aiming along the top, you will be
 your target, but you would not find out if the cannon tends more to one side than the other. Therefore take
 on one side, then on the other & adjust your piece to the point at which you aim. Then take your
 the breech, which will be done quickly. Next, lower your piece a little at your discretion if you are within true
 it rise. But if you were farther away than your piece shoots at point blank, you would need to consider that
 of the ball would make it lower. For firing a cannon at night Some keep their pieces loaded and from the
 lower. For firing a cannon at night Some keep their pieces loaded and from the day. Then, in order that the
 iron pegs on the wooden platform made for mounting the cannon , and leave empty notches into which the wheels of
 and leave empty notches into which the wheels of the cannon can just fit. And by such means you will always
 to touch the the bottom of the edge of the cannon after it has been pointed & adjusted for firing. If
 as far from the edge andof the muzzle of the cannon as the other. And underneath they place the above-mentioned ruler.
 when they want to fire at night, they push their cannon straight toward the above-mentioned ruler & make it so that
 to measure, from one pole to the side of the cannon & if it is too close or too far from
 from the side of the other pole. For unspiking a cannon Some say that one should remove the ball if the
 Some say that one should remove the ball if the cannon is loaded & give fire through the mouth of the
 is loaded & give fire through the mouth of the cannon . But it is to be believed that the fire
 violence of the powder loosens the nail with which the piece is spiked, you will make a thread in the second
 a greater effect for the defense of a breach than petards placed at the entryway at the time of the assault.
 that the enemies are close, one sets fire to all. Grenades , too, well-made and aptly thrown, cause great damage. And
 one wants to cast them; this worsens the wounds. The grenades ought not to be too brittle. But it is good
 blast a little rather than breaking, they have more violence. Cannon ball, weighing 40 lb, having 12 lines, king's foot. A
 A little too big, see the one of that follows. Orgues Then one mounts them on a medium thick board close
 & through these notches one passes the hook of the arquebus which has a hole through which one passes iron pegs
 one on the other. For the other This kind of orgues penetrates & is quite stable. For the other ones which
 are made of one piece like a solid square have cannons only three four one pan & a half long. Also,
 at an entry or for defending a door. A small arquebus à croc weighs 40 lb, is four pans long, is loaded up
 three balls at the breech & two in front. The double cannon is no different from the large ordinary cannon, except that
 in front. The double cannon is no different from the large ordinary cannon , except that it carries its ball which has one
 line is a twelfth part of the ball of the cannon . At the breech, it has one line of thickess
 breech, it has one line of thickess more than the cannon , & half at the front. Its charge is six
 is six or seven lb of powder, more than a cannon , namely by two big ladles. Its ball weighs 56
 much more of a fracas at the wall than the cannon . But it is very troublesome to draw. It is
 for an entry, than for ordinary business. One calls them basilics , and they are pieces made for pleasure. On petards
 for ordinary business. One calls them basilics, and they are pieces made for pleasure. On petards Such a petard is made
 they are pieces made for pleasure. On petards Such a petard is made which weighs three quintals, carries a cannonball flat
 it must exit & round on the inside of the cannon , as if it were a cannonball cut in half.
 piece. Its substance needs to be better than that of pieces , & for 4 quintals of fine copper there ought
 you wanted to fix them toward the middle of the petard , and to do this, the hole of the handles
 needs to be quite large. In this way, the firing petard pushes the pegs along & across into the door &
 on the ball which exptends beyond the mouth of the petard by two pans. Others only put the ball. powder. When
 it you wish to join to the touch-hole of the petard for giving fire, you can sew a or tightly attach
 middle in order to wrap & tie it around the petard , and one needs to attach it in such a
 be open, should be joined to the touch-hole of the petard . Then one needs to put a lot of tightly-pressed
 a lot of tightly-pressed powder onto the touch-hole of the petard . And next, the one outside the ditch needs to
 gotten himself to safety, & the others also. On petards Petards that one wants to place on doors or iron grates
 metal, is bound up with the middle of the cross. Grenades Grenades must be made from the finest metal one can
 is bound up with the middle of the cross. Grenades Grenades must be made from the finest metal one can find,
 rosette & twenty or xxv lb of tin. Tan Each grenade must weigh four to six lb. And in order to
 wounds will be all the worse for it. The best arquebus powder is required here. The hole needs to be as
 into the hole & enter into the middle of the grenade & which comes out of it by the width of
 will be slow enough to allow leisure to throw the grenade without danger, try this powder thus bathed in another pipe.
 bathed in another pipe. You can keep d your loaded grenades in a very dry place, & on the contrary you
 nonetheless, you shall have some already inserted into the some grenades , to be always provisioned. And every three days you
 recognize that they have become too dry. To throw your grenade , take it bravely & in one hand & with
 it promptly amidst the powder troops. The thickness of the grenade should be twice the back edge of a knife. For
 twice the back edge of a knife. For bringing a cannon over land If you have To bring a cannon, one
 a cannon over land If you have To bring a cannon , one needs a hundred pioneers or more to flatten
 mount the battery Know the magazines of France for the artillery . It is good if the platform is slightly inclined
 the platform is slightly inclined toward the front because the piece is more quickly mounted for battery & holds the blast
 false alarm in order that those on the inside throw torches . Very often, one batters where it is strongest because
 has made a breach at the strongest part & the cannon removed, it will surprise the assailed. One approaches fortified towns
 some false alarm on another side. And before, one has Fowlers are those which have a reinforcement inside, in the entire
 or six cano feet larger than the wheels of the cannon on each side m if there is only one cannon.
 cannon on each side m if there is only one cannon . But if there are more, the platforms touch. The
 more, the platforms touch. The distance which is between the pieces is the width of two gabions. As long as the
 battery lasts, the gunners sleep & eat close to a cannon . In small spaces, one does not bother to dig
 one does not bother to dig trenches to reach the pieces but one puts plenty of gabions that are high &
 them. In large A steel touch-hole is put in the cannons in the manner of a screw so it will not
 barricades some some companions-in-arms on guard duty to defend the pieces . One keeps the small powder magazine, of three or
 breach is the best because in in this way the cannon hardly pushes back. a hundred paces away from the battery
 goes to get powder in bags or frails. And each piece has its own frail for loading three or four times.
 frail for loading three or four times. Then, when the cannon is set on the platform, one puts a board that
 platform, one puts a board that is proof of an arquebus between two gabions. Then a gunner loads it with a
 wooden bungs but this runs the risk of making the piece burst. And where one has to fire many cannon shots,
 the piece burst. And where one has to fire many cannon shots, one would need many bungs, which would cost much
 many bungs, which would cost much to carry. Once the cannon is loaded, xx or xxv pioneers push it forward with
 behind the gabions without taking off the board until the cannon reaches it. Once the cannon is in front, the gunner
 off the board until the cannon reaches it. Once the cannon is in front, the gunner mounts it with the wedges
 the loader, the one who aims, the
 of flint stones, cart nails & similar. P A ch cannon must not move unless it has two harnesses, be they
 furnish the wheels, powder box, and other furniture of the cannon , one needs seven quintals and a half of iron.
 shake loose several stones. Some put small wheels of the piece and a thick board to the end of the carriage
 thick board to the end of the carriage of the piece in order that it may be drawn more quickly and
 hear them. Gunner There are three reinforcement rings on a cannon , one at the breech, one in the middle, one
 founders want to work on their craft or render the cannon or other piece lighter & easier to cart around, they
 work on their craft or render the cannon or other piece lighter & easier to cart around, they make it from
 or eight quintals reduction & lightening in weight, and the piece is not less secure for it. This is done for
 is not less secure for it. This is done for big pieces , but for gr small pieces from lesser than the
 it. This is done for big pieces, but for gr small pieces from lesser than the average, one needs to observe the
 one needs to observe the aforesaid proportion, & draw the piece in a continuous line from one end to the other.
 edge of the breech. But because some gunners prefer a piece which is weighted at the front because it is easier
 will move the trunnions closer to the middle of the piece or place them further up toward the mouth. When you
 them further up toward the mouth. When you bore your piece you make a fluted cast iron box like a bedpost
 & scrape, chambers & waves would be made in the cannon which would make it lopsided and there would be a
 it lopsided and there would be a danger that the piece might break in the middle. In order to avoid this,
 breech to the mouth, & that the opening of the piece should be evenly bored from one end to the other,
 the contrary, if restrained, it goes sideways & makes the piece break. Cannonball This is the true measure of the caliber,
 if restrained, it goes sideways & makes the piece break. Cannonball This is the true measure of the caliber, but the
 a dry place for fifteen days, they have more force. Culverin ball Bastarde ball Medium ball Field piece Falconet Falconet of
 place for fifteen days, they have more force. Culverin ball Bastarde ball Medium ball Field piece Falconet Falconet of 4 quintals,
 fifteen days, they have more force. Culverin ball Bastarde ball Medium ball Field piece Falconet Falconet of 4 quintals, alternatively passe-volant,
 they have more force. Culverin ball Bastarde ball Medium ball Field piece Falconet Falconet of 4 quintals, alternatively passe-volant, is 8 pans
 more force. Culverin ball Bastarde ball Medium ball Field piece Falconet Falconet of 4 quintals, alternatively passe-volant, is 8 pans long
 force. Culverin ball Bastarde ball Medium ball Field piece Falconet Falconet of 4 quintals, alternatively passe-volant, is 8 pans long 3
 Medium ball Field piece Falconet Falconet of 4 quintals, alternatively passe-volant , is 8 pans long 3 quintals, is 9 pans
 a half is 7 pans and a half 60 lb musket , is 5 pans and a half or 6 5
 pans and a half The measure of the caliber of pieces The numbers and dots show how many quintals the piece
 pieces The numbers and dots show how many quintals the piece weighs that carries the marked caliber. Pewterers They deem the
 with a lamp renders them thus. Arquebusier For firing your arquebus precisely, it is necessary that the end of the breech
 this place, makes it push back, & blows, which a chambered arquebus clearly shows, which pushes back more than another. And since
 the third part of the ball. Hail shot of the arquebus If you want it to go together, set a piece
 cutting-punch precisely cut at according to the caliber of the arquebus . The range of an arquebus The proportion is of
 to the caliber of the arquebus. The range of an arquebus The proportion is of the fowling piece is 4 king’s
 The range of an arquebus The proportion is of the fowling piece is 4 king’s feet long & the ball xviii deniers,
 a few lines, which is the Paris aulne. The medium hackbut , which is the usual one & the easiest, carries
 is not as breakable. This tin is called common tin. Arquebus To keep it from pushing back, it is necessary to
 it from pushing back, it is necessary to clean your arquebus every eight days, & rub it with oil, & when
 or white stone pestled & pulverized & sieved. Loading an arquebus with hail shot One needs to make a wooden pipe as long as
 E, which should be of the same caliber as your arquebus or pistol, punch round pieces on cardboard or felt or
 should be of the same caliber as your arquebus or pistol , punch round pieces on cardboard or felt or waxed
 until the cartridge is full, then put it into your arquebus . If you want your hail shot to scatter sooner,
 door, cuirass body, and others. as D H Loading an arquebus You ought to have different charges according to the range
 to the range that you want to give to your arquebus , all of which should have a screw on the
 fits in the nut of the ramrod of the said arquebus . Thus, when you have put the powder in the
 in the nut, hold the ramrod upright. And raising your arquebus up, insert the said ramrod until the charge is at
 ramrod until the charge is at the bottom of the arquebus , then right the arquebus, the mouth of the barrel
 is at the bottom of the arquebus, then right the arquebus , the mouth of the barrel up, and remove the
 its grain or dust attaching to the sides of the arquebus , which always has some filth in the chamber. Thus
 and you will shoot more true. For adjusting a crooked cannon Take off the breech and place it on an smooth
 & the rain will never pass through. For firing a schioppo senza rumore Warm the pipe well & plug the touch-hole
 of one of tin or more. Excellent tempering bath for cuirass bodies Take river water, as clear & running as possible,
 of metal have more of a ring for the apothecaries. Grenades must be of fine metal. Sand from the mine It
 a pot, then they are sufficiently reheated. To cast their cannons neatly, they mix their earth with some fine casting sand,
 himself to adjust them well to the l pommel & guards . Spanish ones are deemed better for being of better
 steel & iron, but they are not as well-forged as swords from Vienne in pro Dauphiné. The Spanish ones are not
 mixed with oil to make it hold, they furbish the sword with the stick used to remove the traces of the
 the traces of the grindstone, and then the clean the sword powell with the emery and give it a drop or
 give it luster. Having put the oil, they furbish the sword again on the chameau with the felin, which is a
 it with chalk & the oil which is on the sword . Next, they wipe it & go over it again,
 the gratteau. Ai Once furbished, one mounts it on the guards which one presents to know if they are quite suitable.
 then with a file, they enlarge the opening of the guard if it is necessary. Then, to rivet it, one places
 sides of the cutting edge, but this only spoils the sword & destroys the scabbard because the water enters through the
 is to furbish as said. And next, to garnish the sword & make a scabbard, which is the height of the
 talan, and the shorter the better. Without this scraping, the sword would always cut the scabbard. The opening of the scabbard
 hangers. When the estelles are well levelled, one lays the sword on top, & with a black stone, one marks the
 or velvet of the scabbard hold. Then one puts the sword into the estelles. And precisely thus, they set it in
 one piece, but not the sheep ones. But, when the swords are long, one makes them in pieces which are sewn
 otherwise they die & do not bear such beautiful fruit. Cannons They are very difficult to bore when they are of
 In that case, one makes the touch-hole muzzle of the cannon bigger than the ball in order to avoid the necessity
 mixed with cloth waste which founders use to cast their cannons , or any good lute which withstands the fire, in
 it with earth mixed with dung or founder’s earth that artillery founders use. And in this, be careful & diligent, &
 soak it in hot water, for cold water hardens it. Scimitars To know The workers from Damascus or from Hungary, neighbors
 this first steel, first melted from its ore, they cast scimitar blades in sand sab which afterward cut the other iron
 beaten from pigs & bars. Thus is the steel of scimitars , but it is quite brittle. When one un-hilts b
 but it is quite brittle. When one un-hilts b a scimitar , one recognizes by the tang that enters the hilt
 it is firmly pressed, a little mass like half an arquebus ball made in the genitals and full of very venomous
 better. Take this lean earth of which the founders of artillery & bells make their trusseaulx and molds, which is lean
 varnish on iron for etching on it afterward, for varnishing sword guards tawny. And could also serve makers of gilded leather well.
 cork one of wood pierced in the middle, if the petard is pierced at the breech, which one holds to be
 is made in with a gimlet-like point, may attach the petard faster & without noise. And to for these, one must
 end, as you see depicted. And in this way, the petard holds itself well & is quickly placed. The iron pegs
 is quickly placed. The iron pegs must extend from the petard with the entire point that is made like a gimlet,
 fingers, which goes entirely l into the door. When the petards are placed, one fills the touch-hole with good pulverin and
 gives fire & promptly retreats to take cover. The small petards of 16 or 17 lb are attached promptly with a
 short hooked peg made like a wimble, & if the petard is of a good alloy, one can give fire by
 can give fire by hand just as one does with petards of 27 lb, but then one only puts in three
 must certainly be a strong door if the seventeen lb petard does not blow it up. Some use little bells worn
 oxen or mules on a peasant door. Others load two pistol barrels &, with a gimlet & a string, attach them
 attach them with the muzzle against the door. If the petards are good & do not explode, they only recoil and
 a gimlet on one end, for quickly attaching a small petard with ear of fifteen or xvii lb for a common
 a common door or window. B. This is a small petard with ears. C. This is a larg common petard of
 small petard with ears. C. This is a larg common petard of 27 or 30 lb pierced at the breech, through
 like a gimlet at the point, for quickly attaching the petard against a door that does not have is not covered
 are plates of wax, cork & wood for loading the petard & sealing the powder well. E. This Iron fork made
 up the fork made like pincers & also supports the petard , and with its claw at the bottom prevents the
 claw at the bottom prevents the pincers from recoiling. G. Petard with ear, placed with its peg. H. Knife-like saws to
 I. The large iron pegs which traverse & attach the petard . K. These are common iron pegs, very round &
 always carry to finish breaking down, if by chance the petard has left anything whole. M. A large mallet of wood
 to carry to quickly put under a portcullis after the petard has gone off & to prevent the portcullis from falling.
 from falling. P. Are small iron pincers for putting some petard low on the straight part of the bolt or strap
